We welcome our readers to get into the boat of
imagination and go sailing down the flood of sourceless,
endless time. Let us travel a century for every second and
quickly reach the times of a thousand years before the
present.
In the southern end of Thirumunaipadi, which lies in
between the Thondai Kingdom and the Chozla Kingdom,
about two leagues far to the west of Thillai Chittrambalam,
(Chidambaram Town) there spreads an ocean-like
reservoir. It is known as Veera Narayana Lake. It is about
a league and a half long north to south and about half a
league wide east to west. Time has twisted its name: for
these days the reservoir is known as Veeraanatthu Lake.
In the windy months of Aadi-Aavani (August), when new
floods fill the reservoir to almost overflow, anyone who
looks at the Veera Narayana lake will surely recall with
pride and astonishment the splendid deeds of our ancestors
in Tamil Nadu. Did those ancients do things merely for the
welfare of themselves and the people of their own times?
... They fulfilled tasks that would benefit thousands of
future generations in their sacred motherland.
On the 18th day of the month of Aadi, in the early hours of
the evening, a young warrior, mounted on a horse, was
riding down the banks of this ocean-like Veera Narayana
Lake. He belonged to the Vaanar clan which is famous in
the history of the gallant Tamils.
Vallavarayan Vandiya Devan was his name. Having
travelled a long distance and being worn and weary, his
horse was walking along rather slowly. The young cavalier
did not seem concerned about this. The sprawling reservoir
had so enchanted his heart!
It was common for rivers of the Chozla Kingdom to run
with flood waters touching both banks during the Aadi
month festival of Padhinettam Perukku. The lakes fed by
these rivers would also be filled to capacity, with waves
jostling and colliding upon their embankments. Waters
from the river called North Cauvery by the devout, but
commonly known as Kollidam, rushed into the Veera
Narayana Lake, through the Vadavaru stream and made it
a turbulent sea.
Seventy four floodgates on the lake distributed the bounty
via aqueducts to distant tracts of the country side. With
these irrigation waters from the lake, activities such as
ploughing, sowing and seed transplanting were being
carried out as far as the eye could see.
Here and there, the song of farmers who were ploughing
and women who were transplanting created a pleasant and
joyous music. Listening to all this, Vandiya Devan was
riding quite slowly, without prodding his tired horse. As
soon as he had climbed the embankment, he had started
counting the floodgates with the intention of finding out if
popular claims, which declared the lake to have seventyfour
floodgates, were true! After having come about one
and a half leagues along the bank, he had counted seventy
gates.
Aha! How huge is this lake? How wide and how long? Can
we not say that the tanks built by the great Pallava
monarchs in the Thondai Kingdom are mere ponds and
pools compared with this immense reservoir? Did not
Prince Raja-aditya son of King Paranthaka who conquered
Madurai, think of building this great tank to conserve the
waters of the North Cauvery which were going wastefully
into the sea? And did he not execute his thinking into
action? How great a genius he must have been! Who can
we compare to his brave nobility! During the battle at
Takkolam, did he not, riding an elephant go to the
forefront and single handed, enter combat? And in the
course of that confrontation did he not receive enemy
spears on his chest and give up his very life? And because
of it did he not get the title Deva who reposed atop the
elephant as he departed for the heavens meant for the
brave? These kings of the Chozla Dynasty are remarkable!
They were just as just as they were brave! And as in justice
they excelled in the veneration of their Gods.
Vallavarayan Vandiya Devan's shoulders swelled with
pride when he thought of his good fortune in having
received the friendship of a Chozla prince of such a
dynasty. Just like the waves that dashed against the banks
of the lake because of the swift western breeze, his heart
too bubbled with gratification and pride. Thinking all such
thoughts Vandiya Devan reached the southern end of
Veera Narayana Lake.
There he could view the panorama of the Vadavaru stream
separating from the North Cauvery and falling into the
lake. For a short distance inside the embankment, the lake
shore was silted forming a sandy beach. A number of
casuarina trees and wood-apple trees had been planted on
the beach so that rising flood waters would not destroy the
embankment. Nanal reeds had grown thickly along the
water's edge. From a distance, the scenic view of the
rushing waters from the tree lined North River merging
into the lake in the south-west, seemed like a colorful,
newly created painting. Vandiya Devan saw a few other
things that increased the pleasing joyousness of this
enchanting scene. Was it not the day of the Aadi Festival?
Crowds of people from nearby villages, dragging their
carts covered with canopies of sandal-colored, supple
coconut-leaves, were coming there. Men, women, children
and even several elderly folks all wearing new clothes and
vividly dressed in various ways had come. Bunches of
fragrant flowers, such as the hearts of country cactus,
chrysanthemum, jasmine, gardenia, champaka and
iruvatchi decorated the braids of women.
4
Several had come with families bringing stewed rice and
fancy picnic foods. Some stood by the water's edge and ate
their picnic rice-dishes from platters of plantain-flower
petals. Others, more brave, had ventured further into the
water to cross over to the bank of the Vadavaru. Some
children threw the platters from which they had eaten into
the floodgates and clapped their hands with laughter to see
the petals float through the gates to be rushed onto the
canals. Some mischievous young men plucked the flowers
off the heads of their loved ones and threw them into the
water, merely to see them being cast upon the shore.
Vallavarayan Vandiya Devan stood there watching all this
for a while. He listened with an eager ear when some of
the girls with pleasant voices sang. They sang traditional
boat-songs and flood-songs as well as folk songs like
Kummi and Sindhu.
Come, oh ye young maidens,
Look at the North river bubbling by!
Come watch, oh ye friends,
Look at the White river rushing by!
Come, oh come all ye girls,
To look at the Cauvery tumbling by!
Such flood-songs pleasingly flooded the ears of Vandiya
Devan. Others sang ballads about the bravery and fame of
Chozla kings. Some girls sang of Vijayala Chozla who had
fought in thirty-two battles and had worn his ninety-six
body wounds like ornaments. Others sang acclaiming the
bravery of his son, Aditya Chozla, and how he constructed
sixty-four Shiva temples all along the Cauvery - from
where it rose till it mingled into the sea. One girl sang the
fame of King Aditya's son, Paranthaka Chozla, who had
not only conquered the Pandiya, Pallava and Chera kings
but had also sent an army to Lanka to hoist his victory flag.
When each girl sang, several people stood around her
listening with rapt attention. They applauded with loud
shouts of "Ah, ah" and expressed their happiness!
An elderly woman noticed Vandiya Devan who was sitting
on his horse and listening to all this. "Thambi! You seem
to have come from a long distance; you are tired! Come
down from your horse to eat this stewed rice," she said.
Immediately several young girls noticed our youthful
traveller. They whispered amongst themselves about his
appearance and laughed merrily. Vandiya Devan was
overcome by a certain mortification on one side and
delight on the other. For a moment he considered
dismounting and eating the food offered by the old
woman. If he did so, the young maids would surely gather
around to tease and laugh.
So what? Is it easy to behold so many beautiful maidens in
one place? Even their laughter and teasing would be
heavenly music. In Vandiya Devan's eyes all those girls on
the lake shore appeared like the heavenly nymphs Ramba
and Menaka!
At the same time he noticed something towards the southwest
along the flow of River Vadavaru and hesitated.
About seven or eight large boats with white, spreading
sails filled with the breeze were coming swiftly like white
swans floating with wide-spread wings.
All the people engaged in various merriments turned to
avidly look in the direction from which the boats were
coming. One of the boats came forward more swiftly and
reached the lake shore where the embankment turned west.
Several well-built footmen carrying sharp & shiny spears
were in that boat. Some of them jumped on to the lake
shore and started shoving the people with shouts of "Go!
Move!" Before being pushed around too much, the people
picked up their containers and belongings and quickly
started climbing upon the bank. Vandiya Devan could not
understand any of this. Who were these men? Who were
coming in the sailboats behind them? Where were they
coming from? Perhaps they belonged to the royal
household?
Vallavarayan Vandiya Devan approached an elderly man
leaning upon his cane by the bank. "Sir, whose men are
these? And whose boats are those coming behind like a
school of swans? Why are these footmen chasing away the
people? And why are the people hurrying away?" came his
questions, one upon the other.
"Thambi! Do you not know? There is a flag flying in the
middle of those sailboats. See what is embossed on it!"
said the elder.
"Seems like a palm tree."
"It is a palm tree! Don't you know that the palmtree-flag
belongs to the Lord of Pazluvoor?"
"Is it the great warrior, Lord Pazluvoor, who is coming?"
asked Vandiya Devan in a startled voice.
"It must be so. Who else could raise the palmtree-flag and
come?" said the elderly man.
Vandiya Devan's eyes opened wide with immeasurable
surprise as he looked towards the boats. Vallavarayan
Vandiya Devan had heard much about Lord Pazluvoor.
But, who would not have heard about them? The names of
the brothers - The Elder Lord Pazluvoor and The Younger
Lord Pazluvoor -- were renowned from Lanka in the south
to the Kalinga Kingdom in the north. Pazluvoor, situated
on the northern banks of the Cauvery near the city of
Uraiyoor was their capital. Even from the times of
Vijayala Chozla, the Pazluvoor Family had won heroic
fame. They had a lot of give and take with the royal family
of the Chozlas. Because of this and also because of their
nobility, bravery and fame the Pazluvoor clan had all the
distinguishing characters of a royal family. They also had
the right to carry their own pennant.
5
The elder of the present Lords of Pazluvoor had fought in
twenty-four campaigns. During his times he had won
acclaim as having no equal in war in the Chozla Kingdom.
Since he had now crossed the age of fifty, he no longer
entered the battlefield directly. Nevertheless, he now held
several eminent positions in the government of the
Chozlas. In the Chozla Empire, he was the head of finance;
head of food supply. He had the authority to levy taxes
according to political needs. He had the right to call upon
any princeling, nobleman or squire and order them thus:
"This year you shall pay this much tribute" and the powers
to implement such orders. Therefore, next to Emperor
Sundara Chozla he was the most powerful man in the
Chozla Kingdom.
Vandiya Devan's heart brimmed with an eagerness to meet
this powerful, illustrious and noble Lord of Pazluvoor. At
the same time he recalled the words uttered in privacy by
Prince Aditya Karikala, at the new Golden Palace in
Kanchi City.
"Vandiya Deva, I know you to be a brave man. At the
same time I trust you to be intelligent and give you this
immense responsibility. Of the two letters I have given
you, deliver one to my father the Emperor and the other to
my sister the Younger Pirati. (Pirati is the term used to
refer to princesses of the ruling house.) I hear all sorts of
rumors about even the senior officials of the kingdom in
Tanjore. Therefore, the contents of my letters should not
become known to anyone. Even the most eminent persons
should not realize that you are carrying letters from me. Do
not get into quarrels with anyone on the way. You should
not merely avoid conflicts of your seeking; but also not be
involved in disputes thrust upon you. I very well know
about your courage. You have proved it several times.
Therefore, there shall be no loss of valor in escaping from
duels forced upon you. Most important, you should be
particularly careful about the Lords of Pazluvoor and also
my Young Uncle Madurandaka. I do not wish them to
know even who you are! They should definitely not know
why you are going!"
The Crown Prince of the Chozla Empire and the
Commander-in-Chief of the Northern Armies, Prince
Aditya Karikala had told him all this. The Prince had
repeatedly advised Vandiya Devan about how he should
behave. Since he recalled all this, Vandiya Devan
suppressed his desire to meet Lord Pazluvoor. He whipped
his horse to move on quickly. In spite of the prodding, his
tired horse merely plodded ahead. Having decided to spend
the night at the Kadamboor fortress of the noble
Sambuvaraya, he resolved to procure a better horse before
resuming his journey the next morning.
*****
Ponniyin Selvan
Chapter 2 -- Azlvar-adiyan Nambi
Vallavarayan Vandiya Devan rode down the embankment
and turned his horse towards the southern path; his heart
danced with joy: like those sailboats skipping across the
waves. The excitement buried deep in his heart seemed to
erupt outward. His intuition said that he was going to meet
adventures experienced by none in one lifetime.
What joyous delight even as I approach the Chozla
Kingdom! What wonders will the fertile, bountiful land
beyond Kollidam hold? How would the men and women
of that country behave? How many rivers? How many
reservoirs? How many clear streams? How wondrous
would be the river Ponni (Cauvery) praised in song and
epic? How enchanting would be the flower laden punnai,
konnai and kadamba trees on its banks? Would not the
wink of the lily and the blue-lotus or the blossoming
welcome of a red-lotus be a pleasant sight? How
magnificent would be the spectacular temples erected by
these devout Chozlas along both banks of the Cauvery?
Aha! Pazlayarai! Capital city of Chozlas! Pazlayarai that
turned Poompuhar and Uraiyoor into small country towns!
What of its palaces, towering columns, armaments, guard
houses, busy markets, Shiva temples of granite and
towering Vishnu temples?
Vandiya Devan had heard about the captivating devotional
poems - Thevaram & Thiru-vaaimozli - sung by music
experts in those temples. He was soon to have the fortune
of hearing them. That was not just it -- he was soon to
attain favors beyond his wildest dreams. He was to
personally meet Emperor Paranthaka Sundara Chozla, who
was comparable to the God Velan in valor; who was as
handsome as Manmatha the God of Love. Furthermore, he
was soon to meet the Emperor's beloved daughter, an
incomparable jewel among women, the Younger Pirati
Kundavai!
Hopefully there would be no interruptions along the way.
So what if there are obstacles? I have a spear in hand, a
sword at my waist, armor on my chest and courage in my
heart. But the orders of the Commander-in-Chief, my
Prince, are strict: do not enter into any skirmish until the
assigned task is completed. It is pretty trying to obey that
order! I have followed it thus far in my travels. A mere
two-day journey remains. I must be patient until then.
Travelling with the intention of reaching Kadamboor Fort
before sunset, Vandiya Devan soon reached the Vaishnava
temple in the town of Veera-narayana-puram. Since it was
the day of the Aadi Festival, a large crowd of people had
gathered in the woods and glades around the temple.
Vendors selling jack-fruit, banana, sugar-cane and various
other edibles had set up shops. Others sold flowers such as
lotus buds for worship of the Gods as well as blooms to
decorate the braids of women. Mounds of tender coconuts,
myrrh, candy, jaggery, betel leaves, pressed rice and
puffed grain were on display for sale. Fun-games and other
amusements were in progress here and there. Astrologers,
expert palm readers, soothsayers and magicians who cured
6
poison-bites: of these there was no dearth. Amidst all this
Vandiya Devan noticed a large gathering standing on one
side and he heard loud noises of argument among people
in its middle. An immense urge rose in him to find out
what the argument was about. He could not control it!
Stopping his horse by the roadside near the crowd, he
dismounted. Signaling the horse to wait, he parted the
crowd and walked right in.
It surprised him to find only three persons involved in the
debate. Even though they were merely three men, the
crowd around them periodically cheered their chosen
favorites rather loudly. Vandiya Devan realized the cause
for this commotion and watched to find out the reason for
the argument.
One of the debaters seemed to be an exceptional follower
of the Vaishnava faith: he wore the sandal-paste namam
markings of the sect all over his body; he had styled his
hair into a topknot on his forehead. A short staff was in his
hand; his short, squat frame seemed quite strong.
The other was a follower of Shiva, wearing broad ashen
marks on his devout body.
The third wore ocher robes and had completely shaved all
the hair off his head. He was neither a Vaishnava nor a
Saiva: he seemed to be an Advaita philosopher beyond any
sect.
The Saiva devotee was saying, "Oh you Azlvar-adiyan
Nambi! Give me an answer to this! Did not Brahma try to
find Shiva's head and Vishnu search for His feet? Unable
to see neither head nor foot did not both seek the sanctuary
of Lord Shiva's auspicious feet? That being so, how can
your Thirumal Vishnu be a greater God than Lord Shiva?"
Hearing this Azlvar-adiyan pounded his staff saying, "Well
fella! You fanatic Saiva dust-worshiping priest! Stop your
nonsense. Recall that your Shiva gave boons to the tenheaded
Ravana, King of Lanka. Did not all those boons
turn to sawdust when confronted by Sri Rama, an
incarnation of our Thirumal Vishnu? When that is so, how
can your Shiva be a greater God than our Thirumal?"
At this the ocher-clad monk who believed in the Onesupreme
Being, intervened to say, "Why do you both argue
wastefully? There is no end to your arguments about Shiva
being a bigger God or Vishnu being greater. Only while
you are involved in these pagan rituals of devotion will
you quarrel about Shiva and Vishnu. The path of
Knowledge is greater than devotion. Then there is the state
of Absolute Knowing, beyond even Knowledge. When you
reach that state there is no Shiva and no Vishnu. All
existence is the Supreme Being. Do you know what Sri
Sankara the Teacher says in his dissertation on the
scriptures ...."
At this point Azlvar-adiyan Nambi interrupted, "Stop it
you fellow! Do you know what your Sankara who wrote
all those explanations for the Upanishads, the Bhagavat
Gita and other scriptures finally say?
Sing of Govinda, Sing of Govinda,
Sing of Govinda, Oh foolish mind!
He said it three times! It is to dumbheads like you that he
refers when he mentions foolish minds." The crowd
responded to this with thunderous clapping, mocking
laughter and loud cheers of "Aha, oho".
The monk did not stay quiet. "Hey you with the topknot on
the forehead! It is correct that you refer to me as a foolish
mind. You hold an ordinary wood-staff in your hands; you
are surely a wood-brained wastrel. It is surely because of
my foolish mind that I have come to talk with a wastrel
like you."
"Oh Sir! This is not an ordinary wood-staff. If need be it
has the power to break open your shaven head," and saying
this Nambi raised his staff as the crowd cheered him.
The Philosopher interrupted. "Dear fellow! Stop it! Keep
the staff in your own hands. I shall not be angry even if
you hit me with your stick. Neither will I dispute with you.
That which hits is Supreme! That which is hit is also
Supreme! If you lay hands upon me it is like hitting your
own self!"
Upon hearing this Nambi announced, "All of you watch!
The Supreme is going to serve the Supreme a hallowed-hit.
I am going to hit myself with this staff," swirling his staff
he moved towards the monk.
Watching all this, Vandiya Devan wondered if he should
grab the staff from the fellow with the topknot on his
forehead and serve him a few smacks from it. However the
monk seemed to have suddenly disappeared. He mingled
into the crowd and vanished! At this the Vaishnava
supporters in the crowd cheered even louder.
Azlvar-adiyan turned towards the Saiva devotee, "You
foot-dust worshipper, what do you say? Will you continue
this debate or would you too run away like the monk?" he
said.
"Me? I shall never run away like that philosopher spouting
mere words. Did you think of me also as your Kannan
(Krishna)? Is not your Krishna the same fellow who
received beatings from the butter-churn because he stole
butter from the homes of milkmaids? ..." Before the Shiva
worshipper could finish, Nambi interrupted.
"Why sir? Did not your Shiva carry loads of dirt for the
sake of dry pudding and get beaten on his back? Have you
forgotten that?" Swirling his staff he approached closer.
Azlvar-adiyan was a stocky, well-built brute. The Shiva
devotee was an emaciated man. The cheering supporters in
7
the crowd were ready to enter the tussle. Vallavarayan
Vandiya Devan felt that he must stop this absurd rumpus.
He came forward and said, "Sirs why are you arguing? Do
you have nothing better to do? If you itch for a fight, why
not go to Lanka? There is a big war going on there."
Saying, "Who is this fellow trying to make peace?" Nambi
quickly turned towards him. Some people in the crowd
liked Vandiya Devan's fearless mein and charismatic face.
"Thambi! You tell them." They cheered, "Tell these
quarrel mongers the truth. We will support you."
"I will tell the facts I know. There seems to be no quarrel
between Lord Shiva and Lord Vishnu-Narayana. Those
two seem to be quite friendly and pleasant towards each
other. Then why are these two men arguing?" Hearing
these words of Vallavarayan Vandiya Devan the people
snickered.
The Shiva devotee commented "This boy seems to be
intelligent. But jovial words cannot end the argument. Let
him answer this question: is Lord Shiva a greater God than
Vishnu or is he not?"
"Shiva is a great God. So is Thirumal Vishnu. Both are
equal. Worship whomever you want. Why quarrel?" said
Vallavarayan.
"How can you say that? Where is the proof that Shiva and
Vishnu are equal?" chided Azlvar-adiyan.
"Proof? I will give you proof. Last night I had been to
Vaikunta, the abode of Vishnu. At the same time Shiva
came visiting. Both were seated on equal thrones. They
seemed to be of equal height. Still, to avoid any doubt, I
measured their height with my arm ..."
"Young man! Are you mocking me?" roared Azlvaradiyan.
"Yes, Thambi yes. Tell us more!" applauded the crowd.
"Upon measuring them, I found both to be of exactly the
same height. Without stopping at that I asked both Shiva
and Thirumal directly. Do you know what they said? `Hari
and Shiva are one and the same. Those who don't know
this should have their mouths filled with dirt!' Saying it
they gave me this fistful of dirt to throw in the mouths of
the idiots who quarrel about it." Vandiya Devan opened his
fist to show a handful of dirt. He then threw it among
them. Upon this all hell broke loose. The men in the exited
crowd started picking up dirt and rubble and began
throwing it at each other. Azlvar-adiyan also entered the
fracas with shouts of "Idiots! Unbelievers!" and used his
staff. A great disturbance and commotion was about to
erupt. Luckily, a stentorian announcement thwarting all
this, was heard nearby.
"Best of warriors, bravest of the brave, he who destroyed
the very roots of the Pandiya army by attacking furiously,
he of the victorious spear, he who engaged in twenty-four
combats and wears sixty-four battle-wounds on his sacred
body, the Chozla Secretary for Finance and Food, the lord
who can levy taxes, The Elder Lord of Pazluvoor, is
announced. Make way! Make way!" A thundering voice
made the announcement.
The heralds who made these announcements came first.
Then came the drummers. Behind them came men carrying
the palmtree-flag. Next marched several smart footmen
bearing lances and spears. Behind all these men came a
dark, well-built man seated on a finely decorated elephant.
The sight of the warrior on the elephant looked like a dark
cloud resting atop a mountain peak. People stood on both
sides of the roadway and watched. Vandiya Devan guessed
that the man seated on the elephant was Lord Pazluvoor.
Behind the elephant came a palanquin with silken drapes
pulled close. Before he could wonder who could be inside,
Vallavarayan saw a fair hand full of bracelets and bangles
come out and slightly part the curtains. The dazzling face
of a girl could be seen inside the palanquin: like the moon
shining forth from behind a shifting cloud cover.
Though he was a connoisseur of the beauty of womankind,
though her captivating face seemed like the radiating full
moon, for some reason, Vandiya Devan was not happy to
see that face. An irrational fear and disgust took hold of
him. At the same time the woman's eyes focussed on
something near Vandiya Devan. The next instant the
horrified sound of a girl's scream was heard. The screens
pulled shut once again!
Vallavarayan looked around him. His intuition said that the
lady had screamed upon sighting something nearby. He
searched around again. Azlvar-adiyan was leaning back on
a tamarind tree just behind him. He saw that the fanatic
Vaishnava's face had turned undescribably horrible and
ugly. His heart filled with irrational surprise and revolt.
*****
Ponniyin Selvan
Chapter 3 -- Vinnagara Temple
Sometimes trivial incidents lead to events of great
significance. One such incident now occurred to
Vallavarayan Vandiya Devan. Remember, he was standing
by the roadside to watch the procession of the Pazluvoor
Lord and his entourage? His horse stood a little away form
him.
Some of the men walking towards the end of the Pazluvoor
retinue sighted the horse. "Dear chap! Look at this mule!"
said one of them.
8
"Don't say mule. Say mare," corrected the other. "Set the
semantic research aside! First of all find out if it is a
donkey or a mule!" said a third man. "Let's check it out!"
said yet another as he approached the horse. He tried to
jump on its back, but the intelligent horse realized that this
was not its master; it refused to let him mount.
"Hey! This is a troublesome horse. It will not let me
mount! Perhaps only a prince of well established lineage
can ride it! Well then, Tanjore Muthuaraya will have to
come back!"
His friends laughed at this witticism. Tanjore Muthuaraya's
dynasty had vanished a hundred years ago! Now, a flag
bearing the tiger symbol of the Chozlas flew over Tanjore.
"The horse may think so. However, if you ask me I would
say that a fully alive Thandavaraya is better than a dead
Muthuaraya from Tanjore," said another undaunted man
named Thandavaraya.
"Thandavaraya, find out if this pesky horse that wont let
you come near is really a horse! Perhaps it is a dummy
dance-horse come in for the temple festival," said another
prankster.
"Ok, let's examine it," saying this Thandavaraya twisted
the horse's tail. The proud horse kicked its hind legs
several times and began running amok. "Hey, the mule is
running away! It really is a mare!" shouted the man and
with cries of "Ooi, ooi," they began to chase the horse even
further.
The horse began running helter skelter amidst the festive
crowd. People trying to avoid its hooves moved away in a
hurry. Even so, some of them were kicked down. The
horse ran wild. All this happened within a few seconds
right in front of Vandiya Devan. From the expression on
Vallavarayan's face, Azlvar-adiyan, the Vaishnava,
surmised it to be his horse.
"Thambi, did you see the work of those Pazluvoor brutes?
What happened to the boldness that you showed in front of
me? Could you not show your valor against them?" he
pointed out.
Vandiya Devan felt a piercing outrage. Yet, he grit his
teeth and remained patient. The Pazluvoor men were a
large group. There was no point in confronting the whole
lot. Neither did those men wait for him to pick a fight.
Laughing over their pranks with the horse they had quickly
marched ahead.
Vandiya Devan started walking in the direction in which
the horse had gone. He knew that his horse would run for a
while and then stop. So he did not worry about it. He felt
that one day he should settle the score with those arrogant
men of Pazluvoor and the idea became firmly etched in his
mind.
His horse stood in a clearing beyond the tamarind grove,
wearing a saddened expression. As he approached it, the
horse neighed; the speechless creature seemed to say,
"Why did you part from me and subject me to these
travails?" He quietened the horse by patting its back and
then led it back towards the road.
Several persons of the festive crowd asked, "Thambi why
did you bring this unruly horse here? See how it has kicked
us?" Others pacified them with words like "What will this
young man do? What could the horse have done? We have
to blame those Pazluvoor rogues for this mishap."
Azlvar-adiyan waited at the roadside. Vandiya Devan
frowned. What nuisance is this... It seems as if this fellow
will not let go.
"Thambi, which way are you going?" asked Azlvar-adiyan.
"Me? I plan to go a little ways west and then a bit to the
south; then go around east to travel southwest."
"I am not asking all that. I meant, where do you plan to
stay tonight?"
"Why do you ask?"
"Perhaps, if you were planning to stay at the fort of
Kadamboor Sambuvaraya, I have an assignment to be done
there ..."
"What! Do you know magic or witchcraft? How did you
know that I was going to Kadamboor Palace?" asked
Vandiya Devan.
"What is so surprising about it? Tonight, several
dignitaries from various places are going there. Lord
Pazluvoor and his retainers are also going there."
"Is that true?" said a surprised Vandiya Devan.
"Yes, it is true. The elephant, the horses, liveried footmen
and other honors were from Kadamboor. They came to
receive Lord Pazluvoor; all such protocols are always
observed wherever he goes."
Vandiya Devan became thoughtful. The opportunity to
stay in the same lodgings as Lord Pazluvoor was not easy
to come by. He may even chance to make the acquaintance
of that esteemed warrior. However, the experience with the
unruly retainers of the Lord still rankled bitterly.
Azlvar-adiyan interrupted these thoughts in a begging
voice, "Thambi, will you do me a favor?"
"How can I help you? I am new to these parts."
"It is a task that is possible for you. Take me along to
Kadamboor Fort tonight."
9
"Why? Is some fanatic Saiva coming there? Are you going
to debate about the greatness of Shiva and Thirumal to
conclude who is the greater God?"
"No. No. Did you think that getting into arguments was my
only occupation? Tonight there will be a lavish banquet at
Kadamboor. After the feasting there would be several
entertainments: music, pantomimes, miracle plays, gypsy
dancers and mystic oracles. I wish to see the gypsy dance
and hear the oracle."
"Even then, how can I take you along?"
"Say that I am your servant."
Vandiya Devan felt that his earlier doubts were confirmed.
"Find someone else for such deception and fraud. I do not
need a servant like you. Anyway no one will believe it;
from what you say, I doubt if they would even let me into
the fort tonight."
"Aha! That means you are not going to Kadamboor upon
invitation!"
"Well, I have an invitation of sorts. Kandamaran, the son
of Lord Sambuvaraya, is my close friend. He has invited
me several times to come and stay at his palace if I come
to these parts."
"Is that all! Then even your situation is kind of doubtful
tonight!"
Both kept walking onwards, silently, for a while. "Why are
you still following me?" asked Vandiya Devan.
"I was about to ask you the same question. why are you
following me? Why don't you go your own way?"
"Well it is because of not knowing which way to go.
Where are you going? Perhaps to Kadamboor?"
"No. You said you cannot take me there. I am going to the
Vinnagara temple."
"To the presence of the deity Veera-narayana-perumal?"
"Yes."
"I too would like to go to that temple and worship that
perumal."
"I thought that you would perhaps not come to a Vishnu
temple. It is a temple that should be seen; a deity worthy to
behold. The priest Eshwara Munigal offers services at the
temple. He is a venerable man."
"I too have heard this. But, it is very crowded. Is there
some special celebration at the temple today?"
"Yes, today is the day of the Saint Andal. It is also the
Aadi Festival of Padhinettam Perukku. All these festivities
are because of this. Thambi, have you heard any of the
invocative poems of Andal?"
"I have not heard any."
"Don't. Don't ever listen to her poems!"
"Why this hatred?"
"It is not hatred. Nor is it enmity. It is for your benefit that
I say it. If you ever happen to hear any of the melodious
psalms of Andal, you will drop your swords and spears;
like me, you too will fall in love with Kannan and start
upon a pilgrimage to all the Vishnu temples."
"Do you know any of these psalms of Andal? Can you sing
them?"
"I know some. I also know some of the poems of
Nammazlvar who translated the Vedas (scriptures) into
Tamil. I am going to sing some of them at the shrine. If
you wish, you can listen. Here comes the temple." By now
they had reached the Vinnagara temple.
Paranthaka Chozla I, a grandson of Vijayala Chozla, had
won the title Conqueror of Madurai and Lanka. He was the
monarch who established the foundations of the Chozla
Empire. He achieved historical fame because he covered
the roof of the temple at Chidambaram with gold. Besides
titles like Jewel among Chozlas, Greatest of Warriors, he
also had the honored name of Veera Narayana.
During Paranthaka's times, the Rashtrakutas in the north
were powerful monarchs. He expected them to come from
Manyaketa (roughly present day Maharashtra) and invade
the territories of the Tamils. Therefore he stationed a huge
army, led by his eldest son Prince Raja-aditya, in the
Thirumunaipadi Territories north of the Cauvery.
Prince Raja-aditya had a brilliant idea while his large
numbers of soldiers waited in idleness, with nothing to do.
Using them he wished to fulfil a major undertaking for the
benefit of the population. Enormous quantities of flood
waters flowing in the Kollidam river were going
wastefully into the sea. Wishing to make use of these
waters, he made his soldiers build a huge, spreading
reservoir. In honor of his distinguished father he named it
the Veera Narayana Lake. He then established the town of
Veera-narayana-puram on its shores and also built a
Vinnagara temple.
The Sanskrit term Vishnu Griha meaning Abode of
Vishnu, became Vinnagara in Tamil. Does not Sri
Narayana, i.e., Vishnu recline upon the primeval waters in
sublime meditation? Therefore, it was customary in those
days to build Vinnagaras on lake shores so that the deity
would protect the reservoir. Therefore, the Prince
10
constructed a temple for Veera-Narayana at Veeranarayana-
puram.
It was to this temple that Vandiya Devan went in Azlvaradiyan's
company. At the sanctum sanctorium Azlvaradiyan
began singing. He sang a few devotional poems by
Andal. He then sang a few verses of Nammazlvar:
Praise, praise,praise the Lord,
Gone is the curse of this wretched life;
There is nothing left here for Lord Yama,
Who created the hells of despair and death;
These creatures of the ocean-colored Lord,
Reckoned on this earth, the sorrows of these times;
See, they have come to worship him,
Serve him with dance and song;
We saw, we saw, we saw,
We saw things pleasing to the eye;
Come, Come all ye worshippers!
Come adore him, come here to salvation;
Follow the path of these souls dear to Lord Madhava,
Live on this earth with dance and song of his glory.
When Azlvar-adiyan sang these songs, tears overflowed
from his eyes and streamed down his cheeks. Vandiya
Devan listened attentively. Though tears did not stream
from his eyes, he was very moved. His biased opinions
about Azlvar-adiyan were somewhat transformed. This
fellow is very devout, he thought.
Several others listened to the songs with interest. The
temple trustees came to listen. The priest Eshwara Munigal
heard them with tear laden eyes. The priest's son, a mere
child, stood nearby and listened with rapt attention.
Azlvar-adiyan sang ten such poems and then stopped with
these words:
These be merely parts
Of Thennan Gurukoor Maran Sadagopan's
Devotional compositions
numbering one-thousand and twenty
which would melt any devout heart.
The priest's son whispered something into his fathers ears.
Wiping his tear-laden eyes the priest came forward to ask,
"Sir, it is said that Gurukoor Sadagopa known as
Nammazlvar has sung more than thousand such poems. Do
you know them all?"
"I do not have that fortune. I know just a few of his tenliners,"
replied Azlvar-adiyan Nambi.
"I entreat you to teach this child all the songs you know,"
requested the priest.
In later years this town was to attain several honors. The
boy with the childish face shining with devotion would
grow up to be known as Nadamuni Adigal the foremost of
Vaishnava teachers. He would go to Gurukoor, the blessed
town from where Nammazlvar hailed; search and collect
all thousand poems; set them to music; sing them and
along with his disciples popularize those songs all over the
country. Alavandar who would be born as the grandson of
Nadamuni Adigal would perform several miracles.
Even the great Saint Sri Ramanuja himself would come to
visit this hallowed place of their birth. When he comes he
will be amazed by the Veera Narayana Lake and its
seventy-four irrigation-gates. He would wish to establish
seventy-four monastic seats to spread the holy word of
Lord Narayana's grace and benevolence to all the populace
in the same fashion that the reservoir distributed its
bountiful waters through seventy-four irrigation canals for
the welfare of the people. Later seventy four such
monastic-teaching-seats or pitams would be established.
Let us leave it to scholars to describe all these magnificent
happenings of Vaishnava history and return to our hero
Vallavarayan Vandiya Devan.
When they came outside the temple after their worship,
Vandiya Devan said "Sir, Mr. Nambi! I did not realize that
you were such a devout and learned person. If I had
annoyed you with my impudence please forgive me."
"I forgive you Thambi. Say, will you now do me a favor?"
"Did I not say that I cannot help you on your request? Did
you also not agree?"
"This is something else. I will give you a small note. If you
stay at Kadamboor Fort, you must find an appropriate time
to give it to someone."
"To whom?"
"To the lady who was in the closed palanquin behind Lord
Pazluvoor's elephant."
"Mr. Nambi! Whom do you take me to be? Am I the
fellow for such activities? If anyone but you had uttered
such words to me ..."
"Thambi! Don't be agitated. If it is not possible you can let
it be. Go your way. However, if you help me in this matter,
my help might be useful to you at some later time. There is
no harm done. You can go."
After this Vandiya Devan did not tarry any longer. He
jumped on his horse and sent it galloping towards
Kadamboor.
*****
Ponniyin Selvan
Chapter 4 -- Kadamboor Fort
11
The horse had by now rested well and become quite
energetic. Within a few hours it reached the gates of
Kadamboor. Lord Sengannan Sambuvaraya was an
important Chozla nobleman in those days. His castle gates
resembled the entrance of a large city-stronghold. The
towering walls on both sides of the gate curved around like
a fortress.
A number of elephants, horses, large bullocks as well as
grooms to hold, feed and water these animals stood near
the gates. Here and there men stood with flaming torches
to provide light; oil pourers were ready to add oil to the
lighted torches. Sighting all these bustling activities,
Vandiya Devan felt a bit dismayed and hesitant.
Something special seems to be taking place here; why have
I come here now ... At the same time he felt an
overpowering urge to find out what the special occasion
was. The fortress gates were wide open although men
holding long lances stood near the gates. They looked like
the messengers of Yama, the Lord of Death.
The dauntless youth decided that the best thing to do
would be to ride boldly and go in; any hesitation on his
part would alert the guards to stop him. He translated his
thoughts into action. But what a disappointment?! As soon
as the horse neared the gates, lances crossed in front to
obstruct the way and stop him. Four men came forward
and held onto the horse's reins. One of them peered at
Vandiya Devan. Another held up the flaming torch to light
his face.
With anger darkening his face, Vallavarayan Vandiya
Devan asked "Is this customary in your town? Stopping
guests at your gates ...?"
"Who are you? Impudent fellow. Where do you come
from?"
"Are you asking me my name and town? Thiruvallam in
the Vanakapadi Kingdom is my town. Once upon a time,
soldiers in your country were proud to tattoo the names of
my ancestors on their breasts. My name is Vallavarayan
Vandiya Devan! Do you know?"
"Why did you not bring a liveried herald to announce all
this?" said the gate-keeper. Others around him laughed.
"Whoever you are, you cannot enter! All the expected
guests have already arrived. The Master's orders are to not
let in anyone after that," said their leader.
Hearing this altercation, some footmen who were standing
nearby came closer. "Hey! Is this not the same mule that
we chased into the festival crowd?" said one of them.
"Donkey, not mule," corrected another. "Look at the
starched up fellow sitting on his donkey," added another.
Vallavarayan heard these words. He had been thinking,
why get involved? Perhaps I should go away quietly.
Maybe I should show the token bearing the seal of Prince
Aditya Karikala and then go in. When I have the signet of
the Prince, the Commander-in Chief of the Northern
Armies, none in the regions between River Pennar and
Cape Comorin can impede my way. It was in the midst of
these ponderings that he heard the mocking words of the
Pazluvoor lackeys. Immediately deciding his course of
action, he said "Let go of my horse. I am going back."
The gate-keepers let go of the reins. Vandiya Devan
employed both his legs to apply a sudden pressure to the
underbelly of his horse. At the same time he drew his
sword from its scabbard at his waist. The swirling sword
flashing like swift lightning in his hand appeared like God
Vishnu's spinning Chakra (discus). The horse galloped
forward into the fortress. The men in the way seemed to
suddenly fall down. Lances and spears were thrown apart,
clanging noisily. The horse flew amidst the gossiping men
of Pazluvoor. The totally unexpected, lightning attack
scattered the men in all four directions.
Several other actions took place immediately: The fortress
gates banged shut thunderingly. "Catch him! Hold!" shouts
arose; spears rubbed against swords making a "clang,
clang" noise. Suddenly the drums announcing danger,
boomed "dadam, dadadam". Several men -- maybe twenty,
thirty, fifty or even more -- surrounded Vandiya Devan
and his horse. He jumped down to the ground; swirling his
sword in all directions he shouted "Kandamara!
Kandamara! Your men are killing me!"
Hearing his words, the men were stunned into hesitation
and moved away a little.
At the same time a thundering voice was heard from the
upper balcony of the palace tower. "What is that noise out
there? Stop it!" Several persons were standing there,
looking down on the disturbance below.
"Master! Some fellow has broken our guard and entered
here. He is shouting the young master's name," replied the
gate-keeper. "Kandamara, go find out what the commotion
is about," said the thundering voice from the tower.
Vandiya Devan surmised the voice to be that of Lord
Sambuvaraya.
He and the men surrounding him waited for a while.
"What is all this about?" a young voice said. The men
parted to make way for a youth coming hurriedly. He
noticed Vandiya Devan who stood there twirling his
sword, like God Muruga after killing the Demon Soora.
"Vallava! Is it truly you?" he said in an emotional voice
and ran forward to heartily embrace his friend.
"Kandamara because you repeatedly insisted, I came to
your house. I received this warlike welcome here,"
Vallavarayan pointed to the men around him.
Kandamaran said to his men, "You idiots! Move aside.
Your brains are like budding shoots on a pounding block."
12
Kandamaran took hold of his friend's hand and led him
hastily into the castle. His feet did not stay put on earth;
and his heart danced with joy. What can captivate the heart
of a youth more than a true friendship from his youthful
days? Yes, of course there is a thing called kaadal (love).
But being in love has as much sadness and pain as joy and
pleasure. In the cheerful friendship of youth there is not
even a shadow of sadness. All is heart pleasing happiness.
"Kandamara, what is all this hustle and bustle about? What
is happening here today?" asked Vandiya Devan.
"Oh! I'll explain what's happening here afterwards.
Remember the days when you and I were at the army
garrison near the Pennar river? Remember your wishes
`We must meet Lord Pazluvoor, I must get the
acquaintance of the great Lord of Mazluvoor, I must meet
that one and this one'? That lord, this lord, every fellow -
you can meet them all here tonight," said Kandamaran.
He then took his friend up to the upper chambers where the
guests were seated. He presented him to his father Lord
Sambuvaraya and said "Father! I have mentioned several
times about my friend Vandiya Devan of the Vaanar Clan.
This is he." Vandiya Devan bowed and greeted him with
reverence. However, Lord Sambuvaraya did not seem too
happy about it.
"Is that so? Is he the fellow who created all that
disturbance at the palace gates below?" asked the father.
"He was not the cause for the disturbance. It's those idiots
we have for gate-keepers" said the son.
"Still, he need not have arrived in this sensational manner;
today of all days and that too hours after darkness," said
lord Sambuvaraya.
Kandamaran frowned. He did not wish to continue the
debate with his father. He led Vandiya Devan aside. He
presented his friend to Lord Pazluvoor, seated on a lofty
throne amidst the other guests, and said "Uncle! This is my
dear friend Vandiya Devan. He is from the noble Vaanar
clan. He and I were on guard duty at the army base north
of the Pennar river. In those days he would often express a
wish to `See and meet the bravest among warriors, the
great Lord of Pazluvoor' and would often ask `Is it really
true that he has sixty-four war-wounds on his body?' I
would tell him `One day you can meet him and count
them'."
"Is that so Thambi? Will you not believe it unless you
personally count them? Such distrust? You suspect that
none but one of the Vaanar clan can be brave?" said Lord
Pazluvoor.
Both friends were startled. They had not expected the
nobleman to thus misconstrue their words of praise.
Vandiya Devan felt irritated. Without showing his feelings
he said "Sir! The fame of the brave Pazluvoor clan has
spread from Cape Comorin to the Himalayas. Who am I to
doubt it?"
"Good reply. Intelligent fellow" muttered Lord Pazluvoor.
With a feeling of having escaped with that, the friends
went out. Lord Sambuvaraya called out to his son and
whispered, "Serve your friend some food as early as
possible and tell him to go and sleep in some secluded
spot. He seems tired after a long journey!" Kandamaran
shook his head angrily and walked on.
Later Kandamaran took his friend to the inner chambers of
his mother. Several women were gathered there. Vandiya
Devan bowed low and greeted Kandamaran's mother. He
surmised that a girl hiding shyly behind her was
Kandamaran's sister. He had imagined all sorts of things
based upon Kandamaran's descriptions of his younger
sister. In a way, he was now disappointed. His eyes
searched around among those women, with an eagerness to
find the lady who had come in the palanquin with Lord
Pazluvoor.
*****
Ponniyin Selvan
Chapter 5 -- The Gypsy Dance
Both friends came out from the inner chambers. A voice
from inside called out, "Kandamara! Kandamara!"
"My mother is calling me. Wait right here. I'll be back
instantly," said Kandamaran as he went inside once again.
The voices of several women talking all at once, the sound
of questions being asked one upon the other and
Kandamaran answering them with some confusion could
be heard. He also heard the women inside laughing gaily.
The thought that they were perhaps laughing at him caused
some shame and anger in Vandiya Devan. When
Kandamaran came out, he took hold of his friend's hand
and dragged him onwards saying, "Come let us look
around our palace."
He showed him all the beautiful moonlit terraces, music
rooms, dance halls, storage rooms, well furnished
chambers, living quarters, audience halls, turrets, towers,
stables and other places. After a while Vandiya Devan
asked, "Kandamara, you made me wait outside your
mother's chambers and went in again. At that time what
was so special to provoke the laughter and joy inside?
Were the women so happy to see me, your friend?"
"They were all very happy to meet you. In fact my mother
and others liked you a lot. But they were not laughing
about you ..."
"Then why the laughter?"
13
"You know the Lord of Pazluvoor? At this age, after all
these years he has recently married a very young girl. He
has brought her here in a covered palanquin. Apparently he
has kept her locked up in his own chambers without
sending her to the inner apartments in the palace. One of
the maids who saw the girl by peeping in through the
window, came and described her beauty. That is the cause
for the laughter. They were discussing if she was a
Singhala girl, a Kalinga lady or perhaps a maid from
Chera. You know that the ancestors of the Pazluvoor clan
originally came here from the Chera country?"
"I have heard it too. Perhaps you had told me earlier.
That's OK! Kandamara, how long is it since Lord
Pazluvoor married this mysterious beauty?"
"It must be less than two years. He has not left her alone
for even a short while from the time he married her! He
takes his ladylove along wherever he goes; in a closed
palanquin! In fact there has been a lot of sniggering about
it all over the country. Vandiya Deva, won't there be
ridicule and derision if men who are past a certain age get
involved in such entanglements with women?"
"I do not think that is the reason. Kandamara, shall I tell
you the real reason for the laughter? Generally women are
envious. Don't think I am belittling the women in your
family. All womankind is like that! The women of your
household are dark-colored beauties. However, Lord
Pazluvoor's beloved is rosily-fair and golden hued. That is
why these women do not like her; they are making up
stories about her...!"
"Hey! What is this wonder? How do you know about her
complexion? Why, have you seen her? Where? How did
you see her? If Lord Pazluvoor knows of this, your life is
not yours!"
"Kandamara, I am not afraid of all that. You know it.
Moreover, I have not done anything improper. I was
watching, one among the crowd on the roadside, when
Lord Pazluvoor and his retinue went past. The elephant,
horses, livery, footmen, drummers -- I believe all these
were honors sent by your family to receive him. Is that
true?"
"Yes we had sent all those accolades. So what ...?"
"So what? Nothing. I was just comparing the reception that
you accorded to Lord Pazluvoor and the welcome given to
me; nothing else ..."
Kandamaran laughed lightly, "We gave him the tribute and
honor due to the official who levies taxes. A welcome
appropriate to a great warrior was given to you! Sometime,
with God Muruga's grace, when you become the son-inlaw
to our house we shall give you the honors due to a
bridegroom and welcome you."
He then added, "But, you were about to say something
else; we were sidetracked. Oh yes! You were saying that
Lord Pazluvoor's beloved was very fair and light in color.
How did you know that?"
"Lord Pazluvoor was coming seated on the dark, huge
elephant from Kadamboor Fort: like Yama, the God of
Justice seated upon a huge water-buffalo! All my thoughts
were concentrated on him. While I was building dreamempires
about one day becoming famous and powerful like
him, a covered palanquin followed him. Even as I
wondered about who could come in a covered palanquin, a
hand from inside parted the curtains. I could barely see the
face within. The hand and face were golden-hued. That
was all I saw. From what you said just now, I realize that
she must be the beloved of Lord Pazluvoor."
"Vandiya Deva, you are a lucky fellow! It is being said
that no man has glimpsed upon that Young-Queen of
Pazluvoor. You could at least see her hand and face for a
second. From what you saw, can you guess anything about
the nation which gave birth to that beauty?" asked
Kandamaran.
"I did not ponder about it at that time. Now that I think of
it, she is perhaps a woman from the Kashmir country; or
she is a beauty who hails from the distant lands across the
sea like Java, Kadaram (Malaya), Yavana (Greece-Rome).
Maybe she is a princess from Arabia: I believe that women
in that country are hidden behind veils from birth till
death."
At that moment, the sound of musical instruments could be
heard somewhere nearby. Several kinds of drums, flutes,
pipes and instruments like salli, karadi, parai, udukku
were being tuned together. "What is that noise?" asked
Vallavarayan.
"The Kuravai Koothu (gypsy dance) is about to begin. The
drums and flutes are being tuned in preparation. Would
you like to watch the gypsy dance? Or, would you like to
eat early and sleep well?"
Vandiya Devan recalled Azlvar-adiyan mentioning the
gypsy dance. "I have never seen the gypsy dance; I must
surely see it," he said.
When they walked ahead a little and turned, they could see
the stage being set for the dancers. The guests were
gathering in front of the stage. The stage for the gypsy
dance was set in a wide courtyard spread with clean-white
sand and situated in a spot surrounded by the palace walls
and the towering battlements of the fort. The stage was
decorated with colorful drawings of cocks, peacocks,
swans and parrots. They had further decked the stage with
several fragrant flower garlands, red-rice popped white,
colored millet, yellow turmeric and other powders,
kunrimani (small red berry-beads), and other vivid
decorations. Tall oil-lamps and flaming torches tried to
drive the darkness away. But the swirling fragrance from
14
smoldering frankincense and smokey torches created a
misty screen dimming the lights. The musicians sat on
both sides and in front of the stage and played their
instruments with gusto. The fragrant flowers, sweet
smelling incense and the drum beats all together made
Vandiya Devan feel light-headed.
After all the important guests were seated, the nine
maidens who were to perform the gypsy dance came on
the stage. They wore the tight fitting clothes and
ornaments suitable for dancing; they had bell-filled anklets
on their feet; brilliant red hued flowers of the hill country,
flowers favored by the God Muruga, decorated their
hairstyles. A long garland woven with such flowers thrown
upon their shoulders, seemed to bind them to each other as
they stood upon the stage. In their hands they daintily
grasped beautiful parrots made of sandalwood painted a
vivid green.
After greeting the audience they began to sing and dance.
They first sang a few verses in praise of God Muruga.
They sang of the brave deeds of Muruga; and they sang of
his victorious spear which killed the demons Soora-padma
and Gaja-mukha and then dried up the vast ocean. They
sang of how he chose for his bride, a maid from the Tamil
country, a gypsy maid from the hills who was guarding the
millet fields, even as heavenly nymphs offered prayers to
marry the young warrior-God. Their song celebrated the
grace and benevolence of Velan, i.e., Murugan who bears
the spear. The lyrical songs, the fast paced dance, the quick
drum-beats, enchanting flute all in combination bewitched
those who were watching. With the following words of
prayer the dance concluded:
Let hunger and disease be destroyed;
Let enmity be routed;
Let rain and fertility increase;
Let bounty grow boundless.
The maidens stepped off the stage and moved away.
Next, a man and woman dressed as oracles -- thevar-aalan
and thevar-aati, came on stage. The divine-man and
divine-woman wore blood-red clothes. They had brilliant
garlands made of blood-red oleander flowers. They had
painted their foreheads with bright red kumkum powders.
Even their lips seemed blood-red because they had chewed
the betel leaf and areca-nut. Their eyes seemed blood-shot!
The Velan Attam or oracle dance, began calmly enough.
They danced by themselves and with arms linked together.
As time passed the tempo and passion increased. The
divine-woman picked up a spear from the side. The man
tried to pry it from her hands; and she would not let go.
The dance became more frenzied: finally the man leaped
across the resonating stage, jumping high, he plucked the
spear from his companion. With an expression of fear on
her face she moved away behind the screens.
The divine-man now danced all by himself with more and
more rapid movements. He acted the part of the God Velan
killing the demon Soora. Soora's head was chopped off
repeatedly. But the severed-head grew back again and
again. Velan grew angrier and angrier as the head came
back again and again. Sparks flew from his eyes. In the
end Soora fell dead. Thevar-aalan threw his spear down.
By now all musical instruments were quiet. Only the little
hand-held drum, the udukku could be heard. A priest stood
near the stage fanatically beating the hand-drum. Each part
of Thevar-aalan's body shuddered. Those in the audience
whispered to each other: "The spirit has materialized."
Soon the priest looked at the frenzied Thevar-aalan and
said, "Vela! Muruga! Commander of the Gods! Lord who
killed Soora! Please reveal your divine predictions to us,
your devotees."
"Ask fellow! Ask whatever you want! I will reveal all!"
replied the delirious man. "Will the rains be good? Shall
we have plenty of water? Will the land be bountiful? Will
our desires be fulfilled?" asked the priest.
"The rains will be in season. The waters would be
abundant. The land will be fruitful and desires will be
fulfilled! But you have not made offerings to my Mother!
The Goddess desires a sacrifice. The Mother-Goddess
wants a sacrifice!" shouted the dancer in delirium.
"What sacrifice?" asked the priest.
"Will it be offered if I ask?"
"Yes, we will offer it. We shall surely offer the sacrifice."
"She wants the blood of royalty! She thirsts for the blood
of a prince from a thousand year-old dynasty!" shouted the
frenzied dancer in a horrible voice.
The dignitaries seated in front of the stage -- Lord
Pazluvoor, Lord of Mazluvoor, Lord Sambuvaraya and
others, they looked at each other. Their eyes seemed to talk
a secret language. Lord Sambuvaraya seemed to make a
sign to the priest.
The priest stopped beating his hand-drum. The dancer
dropped upon the stage like a felled tree. The woman
dancer ran in to help him out. The audience dispersed
silently. Somewhere outside, the howling of wolves could
be heard.
Vandiya Devan, who had been watching all this with some
agitation, looked towards the direction in which the
howling wolves were heard. There, atop the outer ramparts
of the fortress, he saw a head!
It was Azlvar-adiyan's head. For a second he was subject
to a horrifying feeling. It appeared as if the severed head of
Azlvar-adiyan had been placed upon those walls. He
blinked his eyelids to look again: the head was no longer
there! He felt ashamed about the worthless fear that had
15
taken hold of him. Several other emotions beyond his
experience seemed to agitate his thoughts.
*****
Ponniyin Selvan
Chapter 6 -- Midnight Meeting
After the gypsy dance and the oracle dance, there was a
lavish feast for the guests. Vallavarayan Vandiya Devan
could not enjoy the banquet. His body was tired and his
mind was agitated. His friend Kandamaran, seated next to
him, pointed out the several dignitaries with pride.
Besides Lord Pazluvoor and Lord Sambuvaraya, there was
Thennavan Mazlava-raya Lord of Mazlapadi Mazluvoor;
The Elder and largest land-holder of Kunratoor had come;
then there was triple-crowned Pallava-raya. The Lords
Thanthongi Kalinga-raya, Vanangamudi Munai-raya,
Deva-senapati Poova-raya; that fearless lion, Lord Muthuraya,
double-canopied Raajali, and the chief land-holder of
Kolli Hills -- all these men were there at the banquet.
Kandamaran whispered their names into Vandiya Devan's
ears and pointed them out discretely.
These dignitaries were not ordinary men; nor was it
common to see them all assembled together in one place
like this. Each of them was a territorial chieftain; or they
had earned the distinction of territorial chieftains because
of their bravery. In those days, the title araya or raya which
was derived from the sanskrit word raja or Tamil word
arasa (meaning king) denoted nobility or royalty.
Territorial chieftains and noblemen of equal rank were
entitled to add the suffix rayan or arayan to their names.
They were also called by the name of their town with the
added title. (In fact our hero Vandiya Devan bore the name
Vallava-rayan because he was born in the noble family of
Vallam.)
But, these chieftains did not bear their titles merely
because of their noble birth and thereby enjoy the comforts
and indulgence of palace life. Only those men who were
able-bodied and brave enough to enter the battle-field
could safeguard their titles and territories. Therefore, each
of these men had not only participated in several
campaigns but they also bore the wounds of such warfare
on their bodies. Now, all these men governed their
territories or kingdoms under the suzerainty of Emperor
Sundara Chozla of Pazlayarai. Many of them were
important officials of the Chozla government.
Normally, Vandiya Devan would have felt immense
elation at having seen all these noblemen in the same
place. However, he felt no joy about it. Why have all these
men gathered together here? The question occurred to him
again and again. All sorts of garbled doubts filled his
mind.
With his mind filled with such confusion, he sought his
bed in the isolated spot readied by Kandamaran for him.
Because the palace was hosting several important
dignitaries, a tiny, covered terrace was allotted to him as a
bed-chamber.
"You seem to be very tired. Lie down and sleep well. I will
take care of the other guests and later come to sleep in this
terrace itself," said Kandamaran before going away.
As soon as he lay down, sleep swirled into Vandiya
Devan's eyes. Nitra Devi, the Goddess of Sleep took hold
of him completely. But what use? There is Mind which
cannot be conquered even by the Goddess of Sleep! Even
though his body remained still and his eyes stayed tightly
shut, thoughts buried deep in the mind blossomed into
dreams. Several meaningless incidents, happenings beyond
reason took place in that dream world.
Somewhere in the distance a lone wolf howled. One wolf
became ten wolves; hundred wolves; they all howled
together. While howling they came nearer and nearer and
nearer. In that pitch darkness their eyes burned like tiny
embers. They came closer and closer. Vandiya Devan tried
to turn around and run away to escape. But, on the other
side there were tens, hundreds, no thousands of dogs --
barking loudly, rushing towards him. The eyes of those
hunting dogs glowed like embers. What will happen to me
if I am caught in between these mad dogs and wolves?
thought Vandiya Devan and shivered.
Luckily there was a temple right in front. He ran into the
temple and pulled the door shut, bolting it hurriedly. When
he looked around it seemed to be a temple of the Mother
Goddess. A statue of Kali stood there with a horrible face
and tongue hanging out. A priest rose from behind the
statue. He held a terrible machete in his hands. "Oh! You
have come," he said as he came closer and closer.
"What is the history of your noble family? For how many
generations have your clansmen ruled their kingdom? Tell
the truth!" said the priest.
"The Vallava Rayas of the Vaanar family had ruled for
three hundred years. During my father's times we lost all
our lands to the Vaithumba kings," replied Vandiya Devan.
"Then you are not the right sacrifice. Run away," said the
priest with disgust.
Suddenly Kali turned into a statue of Krishna! Two
delightful maidens came in, singing the psalms of Saint
Andal and danced with abandon in front of the statue.
While he was enchanted with these sights, he heard the
song "We saw, we saw, we saw things pleasing to the eye,"
behind him. Turning around he saw Azlvar-adiyan Nambi.
Yes it was him singing. Oh no. Not him; it was just his
head that sang. The severed head was placed on the
sacrificial alter!
16
Unable to bear this sight, Vandiya Devan turned away.
Upon turning, he banged his head upon the pillar. The
dream melted away. Eyes opened. But he saw a sight that
seemed to mix reality with dreams.
In a spot directly in front of his terrace, he could see the
fortress walls of Kadamboor palace; he could see a head
on top of these walls. It was the head of that very same
Azlvar-adiyan Nambi. This time he realized that it was
neither a dream nor a hallucination. Because, however
long he stared at it, the head remained there. It was not
merely a head, there was a body behind it. He could easily
detect both hands of Azlvar-adiyan holding on to the wall.
In addition, the fellow was staring rather intensely at
something below, inside the wall.
What is he looking at so earnestly, inside there? ... There is
some kind of deception and intrigue in this. Azlvar-adiyan
could not have come here with good intentions. He must
have come here with vile plans to perform some evil deed.
Is it not my duty, being Kandamaran's dearest friend, to
stop this wickedness? How can I sleep in idleness without
guarding the house of these folks who have fed and housed
me tonight? Vallavarayan jumped up. He picked up a knife
in its sheath lying on his side and stuck it in his waistband.
He walked towards the direction in which he saw
Nambi's head.
Remember, he was sleeping in a corner of the upper
terrace? From there as he walked towards the outer walls
of the palace, he had to go around several turrets, pillars
and decorative rooftops. After walking on for a while he
suddenly heard the sound of voices talking somewhere
nearby. He hesitated. Hiding himself behind a pillar he
peeped down below.
In a narrow courtyard enclosed by tall walls he saw about
ten or twelve men seated comfortably. The towering walls
hid the rising moonlight. However, an iron oil-lamp buried
in the wall gave some light. All the men seated there were
the dignitaries he had met at the banquet earlier; the
chieftains and elder officials of the Chozla Empire.
They must have gathered in this midnight conference to
discuss some important matter. Azlvar-adiyan must be
trying to spy upon what they were saying and doing, by
hanging on the outer walls. There is no doubt about the
fact that Azlvar-adiyan is a very shrewd and clever fellow.
From where he was positioned on the wall, Azlvar-adiyan
could more or less see all the men seated in conference
below. He could hear their talk very well. But the men
seated there could not see Azlvar-adiyan. The courtyard
and palace wall were situated in that fashion! Somehow,
the fellow had chanced upon such a perfect spot.
Capable fellow. No doubt! But all his cleverness will not
work with this Vandiya Devan of the Vaanar clan.
Somehow, I must get hold of that masquerading Vaishnava
fanatic .... but if I am to catch him, I cannot do so without
attracting the attention of the men assembled below. I have
to cross the courtyard before I can reach those walls. There
may be some danger in crossing the courtyard in full view
of those men.
He recalled the words of Sambuvaraya saying "He need
not have come here, today of all days."
These men are gathered here to discuss something
important. It is clear that they do not want anyone to know
what their discussions are about. In such a situation if they
suddenly see me, they will start suspecting me. By the time
I explain about Azlvar-adiyan he would have jumped off
the wall and escaped. All that will remain is the doubt
about me. If they ask, "Why did you, who were supposed
to be sleeping, come here?" what can I reply? I will
definitely put Kandamaran in a delicate position. There!
Even Kandamaran is part of this meeting; he is seated at
the back. If I ask him in the morning I can know all.
As these thoughts ran through his mind, Vandiya Devan
saw a covered palanquin resting in one corner of the
courtyard below him. Is this not the same palanquin that
came behind Lord Pazluvoor and his elephant? That lady
who was in it, who parted the curtains to peep outside, I
wonder where she is now. I believe the old man did not
even send her to the women's apartments. This is the
predicament if somewhat older men marry very young
girls. Suspicion drains their very life. They cannot bear to
be parted from their young wives even for one moment!
Perhaps even now, Pazluvoor's Young-Queen is in this
palanquin! Gosh! Look at the fate of this great warrior! At
this age, he is enslaved by a slip of a girl and is on tenderhooks.
She is not all that great a Rathi, Menaka or Ramba
(heavenly beauties).
No, Vandiya Devan had not forgotten the feeling of
distaste which he experienced when he had seen her by the
roadside. I wonder what this brave Lord Pazluvoor sees in
her? More surprising is this Azlvar-adiyan's madness.
Maybe he is waiting on that wall because this palanquin is
here. What is the relationship between him and her? How
can I know? Perhaps she is his sister; or maybe his
sweetheart. Maybe Lord Pazluvoor forcefully abducted
her. He is capable of doing such things. Maybe this fellow
is wandering around trying to find an opportunity to meet
her and talk to her. Why should I bother about all this. Let
me go back to sleep, thought Vandiya Devan.
Just as he made this decision he heard his name being
uttered down below. Immediately he began to listen with
some interest.
"That fellow who came in saying that he was a friend of
your son? Where is he sleeping? He should not hear
anything that we utter here. Remember that he serves the
Commander-in-Chief of the Northern Armies. Till all our
plans are complete and the time for action arrives, no one
should know about our plans. Even if there is the slightest
suspicion that this fellow knows something, he must not be
17
let outside this fortress. In fact it would be better to put a
complete end to his activities ..."
Our readers can guess how Vandiya Devan felt upon
hearing these words. But he did not move away from the
spot. He made up his mind to listen to all their talk.
Who was the Northern Commander-in-Chief? It was none
other than the eldest son of Emperor Sundara Chozla.
None other than the Crown Prince, next in line for the
throne. Why should these fellows object to my serving that
Prince? What is it that they are planning that must be kept
secret from the Prince?'
At that moment Kandamaran intervened for his friend:
"Vandiya Devan is sleeping peacefully in the corner
terrace. He cannot hear the discussions in this meeting. He
will not interfere in things that do not concern him. Even if
he hears something he will not hinder your plans in any
way. I will be responsible for that."
"I am happy that you trust him so much. But none of us
know of him or his credentials. That is why I warned you.
What we are going to discuss now is about the rights of
succession to a large empire. Even if one whisper gets out
because of carelessness it may lead to severe
consequences. All of you must remember this," said Lord
Pazluvoor.
*****
Ponniyin Selvan
Chapter 7 -- Laughter And Hatred
Vandiya Devan made up his mind as soon as he heard the
words `Right to the empire' uttered by Lord Pazluvoor.
What are these men going to say about the rights to
succession? Who are they to discuss it? I must definitely
find out what is happening here. I better sit right here;
there cannot be a more convenient hiding spot. Let the
Nambi go do what he wants. Why should I bother about
him?
Vandiya Devan had surmised earlier that something
mysterious was taking place in that palace. The cryptic
words of Azlvar-adiyan, the arrogant behavior of the gatekeepers,
the frightening words of the frenzied soothsayer --
all these had raised several doubts. Here was an
opportunity to clear all those apprehensions! Why not
utilize the heaven sent chance?
Well! Even Kandamaran, who I considered a dear friend,
has not told the truth. He sent me to bed and has come to
this secret midnight-meeting. I must not let him off easily
tomorrow!
By now, Lord Pazluvoor had started talking. Vandiya
Devan listened carefully. "I am here to announce a very
grave news to you all. That is why Sambuvaraya has
convened this meeting. Right now, the health of Emperor
Sundara Chozla, is cause for great concern. I have secretly
asked the palace Doctors: they have said `There is not
much hope now. He is not likely to live much longer.'
Therefore, we have to decide upon the next course of
action." So said Lord Pazluvoor.
"What have the astrologers said?" asked one of the men.
Another replied "Why ask the astrologers? Hasn't the longtailed
comet been appearing in the evening skies for
several days? Is that not enough?"
Lord Pazluvoor replied to this: "We have consulted the
astrologers also. They postpone the time a little. That is all.
Anyway, we have to now think about who is eligible to
succeed to the throne ..."
"What is left to think about now? Was not Aditya
Karikala coronated as the Crown Prince two years ago
itself?" declared a hoarse voice.
"True. But I would like to know if any one of us was
consulted before the coronation took place. Each one of us
gathered here belongs to well established clans that have
strived for more than a hundred years, for more than four
generations, to acquire the eminence of this Chozla
Empire. My great-grandfather died in the battle of Thirupuram-
biyam. My grandfather lost his life during the war
in Vellur. My father sacrificed his life at Takkolam. In a
similar fashion, ancestors to each of you have given their
lives to establish the greatness of this Chozla Empire.
Young men from our families have died in the battlefield.
Even today, sons from our family and clan are engaged in
warfare in Lanka. But the Emperor did not consult our
opinion for the decision about a successor to the throne.
Even Emperor Dasaratha of the Epic convened an
assembly of his advisors before deciding to crown Lord
Rama as the Crown Prince; he consulted his ministers,
advisors, army commanders and chieftains under him.
But, our Sundara Chozla did not consider it necessary to
consult anyone ..."
"It is correct to say that he did not consult any of us.
However, it is not accurate when the Lord of Taxes says
that the emperor did not consult anyone! The opinions of
the Elder Pirati Sembiyan Madevi and that of the Younger
Pirati Kundavai Devi were asked for. Can Lord Pazluvoor
deny this?" When a member asked this in a mocking
voice, some others of the group laughed.
"Well! You all laugh! I do not know how you can think of
laughter. My very heart burns when I think of it; my blood
boils. I wonder why I should safeguard my life and live
without any sense of shame. The soothsayer who danced in
frenzy said that the Goddess is asking for a sacrifice. He
asked for a human sacrifice; of a prince from a thousandyear
old dynasty. Give me up as the sacrifice. My family is
more ancient than a thousand years. With a blow across
my throat, each of you with your swords offer me as the
18
sacrifice. The Mother Goddess will be satisfied; my soul
will be satisfied."
Lord Pazluvoor spoke the above words with as much rage
as the frenzied soothsaying-dancer.
Silence prevailed for a short while. The whistling of the
western breeze and the whispering of the trees near the
wall were the only sounds.
"I beg for the patience and forgiveness of the Pazluvoor
King for having uttered some words in ignorance and the
thoughtless laughter that followed. You are our leader
without any equal. We here, are all ready to carry out any
of your commands. We will walk in the path you direct us.
Please grant forgiveness," spoke an emotional
Sambuvaraya.
"I too lost my composure. You should forgive me. Think
of one thing. Two hundred years before today, Vijayala
Chozla broke the power of the Muthuaraya kings and
captured Tanjore. During the battle of Thiru-puram-biyam,
he helped the Pallava army and destroyed the legions of
Madurai Pandiya. From that moment, the Chozla Kingdom
has been growing and expanding day-by-day. The Chozla's
had not acquired this greatness even during the times of
historic Karikala Valava who built the embankments for
the Cauvery. Today, the empire spreads from Cape
Comorin in the south to the Thungabadra-Krishna rivers in
the north. The Pandiya Kingdom, Nanjil Kingdom, the
Chera Kingdom which has not been subjugated by anyone
so far, Thondai Territories, Paagi, Gangapadi, Nulampadi,
Vaithumba Territories, the Chitpuli nation, Bana lands,
Kudagu Hill Territories where river Ponni rises, -- all these
lands are now under Chozla control and are paying tribute.
The Chozla tiger-flag flies in all these countries. By now,
even Lanka in the south as well as Vengi and Rashtrakuta
in the north should have come under our sway. I do not
have to give you the reasons for them not being
vanquished; you know the reasons ...."
Lord Mazluvoor intervened: "Yes. All of us know the
reason. There are two reasons for Lanka, Vengi, Kalinga
and Rashtrakuta not coming under our suzerainty. One
cause is the Northern Commander-in-Chief, Prince Aditya
Karikala; the other is the Commander of the Southern
Armies, Arulmozli Varma."
"I agree with the reasons given by Lord Mazluvoor. For
the last hundred years the practice for appointing a
commander in the Chozla Kingdom was different. Brave
warriors, with the experience of several campaigns would
be selected as Generals of the army and as Commandersin-
Chief. But what has happened today? The elder Prince
is a commander for the northern armies. What is he doing?
He is not planning campaigns against the twin territories of
the Rashtrakutas or against Vengi (modern Eluru of
Andhra) in the northeast. He sits in Kanchi, building a
Golden Palace! I ask you, the bravest warriors born in the
best of clans: till now, has any king in the Tamil Nation
built a Golden Palace for his own dwelling? Even the
most famous Emperor Paranthaka, who conquered
Madurai and Lanka and is now in his heavenly abode, did
not build himself a Golden Palace. He merely covered the
roof of the temple in Chidambaram with gold. But Prince
Aditya Karikala builds himself a Golden Palace in Kanchi,
for his residence! Apparently, the huge palaces from
which great Pallava monarchs ruled their empires for
several generations, are not adequate for the prestige of our
Prince! He builds a Golden Palace! He embeds rubies and
diamonds in the walls of that palace. Not a copper coin
from all the treasures captured from our campaigns in the
Gangapadi, Nulampadi and Kudagu Territories has he sent
back to the treasury in the capital till now."
"Has the construction of this Golden Palace been
completed?"
"Yes. My spies tell me that it has been completed. In
addition letters arrived for the Emperor from his beloved
elder son! He wants the Emperor to come and stay for a
while, in that newly constructed Golden Palace."
"Is the Emperor going to Kanchi?" asked another alarmed
voice.
"You need not have any concern about that. I am there to
take care that nothing like that will take place; my brother,
the Commander of Tanjore is also there. None can enter
the fort of Tanjore without the consent of the Younger
Lord Pazluvoor. None can interview the Emperor without
my knowledge; nor can they give letters. Twice or maybe
thrice, I have stopped letters that arrived for him."
"Long life to Lord Pazluvoor! Hail the Chanakian political
astuteness of the Pazluvoor king! Long life to his bravery!"
such shouts arose.
"Please listen a little longer! Much more than the deeds of
the Crown Prince, the activities of Prince Arulmozli
Varma who has gone to Lanka are peculiar. What do we
know of the rules of warfare? For generations and over
several hundreds of years, what policy have our ancestors
followed? If our armies invade enemy territories, the food
supplies and payments for our armies have to be procured
from those enemy lands. The wealth to pay our army must
be captured in those enemy regions. Excess treasures
should be sent back to the government treasury in the
capital city ... But, do you know what Prince Arulmozli is
doing? He wants food supplies to be sent from here, by
ships, to feed our soldiers in Lanka! For the last one year,
ten times, I have sent such shiploads of supplies."
"Most unusual and peculiar! We cannot tolerate such
illegalities! Never heard of such behavior!" rose several
voices.
"Listen to the reasoning of Prince Arulmozli for this
peculiar behavior. If we try to procure supplies for our
armies from the territories we invade, we would cause a lot
19
of inconvenience to the civilians and gain the displeasure
of the farmers in that land. Our dispute is with the royalty
of Lanka; not with Lankan populace. Therefore we should
not harass them in any way. After winning our battles
against their royalty, we should rule with the full approval
of those people. Therefore, the food and monies must be
sent from the homeland."
Someone from the meeting intervened by saying, "We
should not demand anything from the nations we have
conquered! We should fall at their feet and worship their
people! I have never heard of such conduct in warfare."
"Ask me about the consequences of such activities!
Because of these undertakings of both the Princes, the
treasury and granary in the royal palace at Tanjore often
become empty! I am compelled to levy more taxes on you
and also collect tributes from all of you. Perhaps that is
why the Chozlas have appointed me as their Tax Official.
If I had not considered the welfare of this country as most
important, I would have given up my positions long ago!"
"Oh no! Never! Your holding these positions gives us
several assurances. Why have you not spoken about these
things to the Emperor?"
"Why not? I have personally spoken to him about it several
times. Every time I am put aside with words like, `Ask the
Elder Pirati. Ask the Younger Pirati.' Remember I told you
earlier, the Emperor has lost the capability of thinking for
himself. Neither does he ask our opinion on important
matters. The words of his elder aunt, the Elder Pirati
Sembiyan Madevi, are gospel to him; after that he wants
me to consult with his beloved daughter the Younger Pirati
Kundavai. I, who have grown grey in the service of this
nation, I, along with other ministers, have to go and stand
in the presence of that slip of a girl -- a girl who has not
crossed the River Kollidam in the north or River
Kudamuruti in the south -- and then consult her opinion.
How is this story? From the days of this Chozla Kingdom
being established, I have never heard of such interference
from women in the politics of the nation. How long can I
tolerate such humiliation? If all of you unanimously agree,
I shall give up my official positions which trouble me to
levy taxes and fill the treasury, and go back to my own
city."
"No! Never. Lord Pazluvoor should not forsake us like
that. The Chozla Empire has been established with the aid
of thousands of brave men shedding their blood over four
generations; such a nation will be torn apart in confusion
within a short time if he does that," said Lord
Sambuvaraya.
"Well then, you should all give me your ideas about what
to do in this situation. What is the solution to this women's
rule which is worse than the power of the amazonian
Queen Alli?" asked Lord Pazluvoor.
*****
Ponniyin Selvan
Chapter 8 -- Who Is In The Palanquin?
For a while, the men in that meeting talked and argued
amongst themselves. Since several voices were raised at
the same time, Vandiya Devan could not hear anything
clearly.
In a louder voice, Lord Sambuvaraya said, "Don't we have
to answer the requests of the King of Pazluvoor? What is
the point of each one talking like this? It seems to be hours
past midnight. Look at the moon!"
"I have a certain doubt. Some others also, like me, may
have a similar reservation. If Lord Pazluvoor promises not
to be angry, I would like to ask about it," said a hoarse
voice which had spoken once before.
"Is it Vanangamudi Raya, who is talking? Please, let him
come forward into the light," said Lord Pazluvoor.
"Yes, it is me! Here, I have come up into the light."
"It is customary for me to show all my anger in the
battlefield and against my enemies. I have no anger against
friends. Therefore, please ask any question without any
hesitation."
"I will surely do so. The allegations against Emperor
Sundara Chozla, those very same accusations are placed
against Lord Pazluvoor by some people! I may not believe
them, but I would like some clarification," said
Vanangamudi Munai Raya.
"What are they? What charges? Please explain."
"We all know that Lord Pazluvoor married a young girl
about two years ago..."
With an angry voice, Lord Sambuvaraya interrupted: "We
object to such words by Munai Raya. It is totally
indecorous to ask such improper questions of our beloved
leader, our chief guest."
"I request Lord Sambuvaraya to please remain patient. Let
Munai Raya express his reservations freely. It is better to
voice one's opinions in the open than bury them in the
mind. It is true that I married a young girl after my fiftyfifth
year. I certainly accept that. But, I never declared
myself as a reincarnation of Lord Rama who vowed to
have only one wife! I never said that I will wed only one
maid. I love that girl; she returned my sentiment.
According to the ancient tenets of this Tamil country,
willingly, we married each other. What is wrong in that?"
asked Lord Pazluvoor.
"Nothing wrong!" replied several voices.
20
"I never said there was anything wrong about his marriage.
Who amongst us is monogamous? But ... but ..."
"But what? Ask without reluctance."
"Some people say that in all matters Lord Pazluvoor
consults and acts according to the wishes of the Young-
Queen he married recently. They say that he acts according
to her direction even in matters of the state. It is said that
he takes his Young-Queen along wherever he goes."
A laugh was heard in their midst.
Lord Sambuvaraya jumped up. "Who laughed? Let him
come forward and explain why he laughed!" he roared
while drawing his sword from its scabbard.
"I laughed! Don't be agitated Sambuvaraya!" said Lord
Pazluvoor. He then continued, "Munai Raya! Is it a crime
to take my legally wedded wife wherever I go? It is true
that I take her with me to visit several places. But it is
inaccurate to say that I consider the Young-Queen's
opinion in matters of the state. I have never done that."
"If so, I request Lord Pazluvoor to clear just one more
doubt. Why has this palanquin, which should have stayed
in the women's courtyard, come here to our confidential
meeting? Is there someone inside the closed palanquin or
not? If there is no one inside, how is it that I heard
somebody clearing their throat? Was it the jingle of
bangles that I heard inside, a little while ago?"
When Munai Raya asked these questions, a curious silence
prevailed amidst that gathering. Since these doubts had
occurred to most of them, none spoke against the words of
Munai Raya. Lord Sambuvaraya was muttering something
to himself. But nothing was said.
Tearing the silence apart, in a distinct voice, Lord
Pazluvoor said, "Good question. I am obligated to give an
answer. I shall clear your misgivings before we conclude
our meeting. Can you wait another half an hour? Do you
have that much trust in me?"
"Yes we do. We have complete trust in you, Lord
Pazluvoor," said Sambuvaraya.
"Let no one think that my reverence or loyalty to Lord
Pazluvoor is less than that of anyone else. Since he invited
us to speak freely, I asked. Apart from that I am ready to
obey all his orders. I shall give up my very life if he
commands it!" said Vanangamudi Munai Raya.
"I know about Munai Raya. I also recognize the trust you
have all placed in me. Therefore, let us now come to a
conclusion about the matter for which we convened this
meeting. Let Emperor Sundara Chozla Paranthaka live
long in this world and rule this Chozla Empire for a long
time. However, unfortunately, if something happens to
him: if the words of the palace doctors' come true, if the
omens forecast by the comet appearing in the sky come
true -- we have to decide who is eligible to succeed to the
Chozla throne."
"We request that you state your opinion on this matter.
There is no one here who has anything to say against your
views."
"That is not correct. Each one of you must think and then
express an impartial opinion. Permit me to recall some old
history to your memories. Twenty-four years ago, King
Gandara Aditya who was a great philosopher and devout
soul, died unexpectedly. When he died, his son,
Madurandaka, was a one year old child. The Queenconsort
of Gandara Aditya, the Lady Sembiyan Madevi,
announced to us, the wishes of the King: his younger
brother Arinjaya was to accept the Chozla throne after
him. Therefore, we crowned Prince Arinjaya as the Chozla
monarch. However, fate did not decree that Arinjaya
should sit on the throne for more than a year. When
Arinjaya died, his son, Paranthaka Sundara Chozla, was a
youth of twenty-four. Considering the welfare of the
nation, all of us -- the ministers, advisors, territorial
chieftains the heads of all the clans and leaders of the cities
and districts -- decided unanimously, and crowned Sundara
Chozla. None of us had cause to regret this. Because, until
two years ago, he ruled the nation with justice; he
respected our wishes and opinions and ruled this country
lawfully. Because of him the Chozla power grew to
include all neighboring nations under its sway.
"Now, the health of Sundara Chozla is cause for concern.
In this situation, who is eligible to succeed the Emperor?
Madurandaka, the cherished son of King Gandara Aditya,
is now grown up; he has the intelligence, education, the
character, the devotion to God, all the qualities of a person
worthy of the throne. Sundara Chozla's son, Aditya
Karikala, who is younger to him by one year, is stationed
in Kanchi as a Commander-in-Chief. Who between these
two has the right to succeed to the throne? What is the
code of inheritance among the clans? What is the law?
What is the ancient tradition of the Tamils? Is it justice if
the elder brother's son, Madurandaka inherits the nation?
Or, is it legal for the grand-son of the younger brother to
succeed? Each of you must consider this and clearly state
your decision."
"Madurandaka, the son of the elder brother Gandara
Aditya has the right to succeed. That is legal, justice,
tradition," said Lord Sambuvaraya.
"I agree", "That is my opinion too," so rose several voices.
"Your convictions are mine. Madurandaka deserves the
throne. However, is everyone here ready to support and
further this belief? Are you all ready to sacrifice your lives,
your wealth and very soul for this cause? This very minute,
are you all ready to swear in the name of Goddess Durga
and take an oath of allegiance?" When Lord Pazluvoor
21
asked this question his voice had a certain harshness, not
heard till then.
Silence prevailed for some time. Lord Sambuvaraya then
said, "We are ready to take such an oath of support.
Before that, we need one clarification. What are the
feelings of Prince Madurandaka? Is he ready to accept the
throne and rule this Empire? We have heard that the
cherished son of Gandara Aditya has forsaken the
pleasures of worldly life and is fully involved in the
devotion and worship of God Shiva. Several persons have
said that he has no interest in worldly kingdoms. We have
also heard that his mother, the Elder Pirati Sembiyan
Madevi is totally opposed to his ascending the throne. We
wish to know the truth about this from you."
"A good point and you raised it at the correct time. I must
clarify this question. I should have explained earlier --
forgive me for not doing so," with this long introduction
Lord Pazluvoor spoke as follows: "The whole nation
knows that the Lady Sembiyan Madevi discouraged her
only son from having any interest in affairs of the state and
raised him as a Saiva ascetic. But, neither nation nor
people know the reason behind such behavior. The Elder
Pirati feared that his very life would be in danger if her son
Madurandaka had any wish to rule the empire ... "
"Aha! Is that so!"
"Yes! To any mother, the wish that the son to whom she
gave birth should stay well and alive is greater than a
desire that he should sit upon the throne of the Kingdom.
Young Prince Madurandaka, who considered the words of
his mother as gospel, turned his mind in the path of
devotion and asceticism. Nevertheless, for sometime, his
mind has slowly undergone some transformation. `This
Chozla Empire is mine; it is my duty to rule the nation!'
such thoughts have taken root and grown in his heart. If he
knows that all of you are ready to support his cause, he is
ready to come forward at a suitable time and openly
declare his intentions."
"What proof do we have for this?"
"I will, without delay, produce proof that will satisfy all of
you. If I furnish such proof, will each of you take an oath
of allegiance to this cause?"
Several of the men said "We will! We will!"
"I hope no one has any other kind of reservation?"
"No! None!"
"Then, I shall show proof. I shall also clear the doubts
raised by Lord Vananga-mudi Munai Raya." With this
declaration, Lord Pazluvoor rose from his seat. Walking
majestically, he neared the closed palanquin.
"Prince! Please part the curtains and grace the outside with
your appearance. Permit these brave warriors, who are
ready to sacrifice their very life, wealth and soul for you,
to gaze upon your face." Lord Pazluvoor spoke in a very
deferential voice.
Vandiya Devan, who was sitting behind the pillar on the
upper terrace and listening to all these discussions with an
overpowering curiosity, now peeped down carefully. As
before, a hand parted the curtains of the palanquin. It too
was a golden hand. It seemed to be the very same fair hand
he had seen once before. But he now realized that he had
surmised the golden bracelet worn by royalty to be a
bangle. A dazzling face, comparable to the full moon,
could be seen the very next instant. A handsome figure,
comparable to Manmatha, the God of Love, stepped out of
the palanquin and smiled.
Aha! Is this Prince Madurandaka, son of Gandara Aditya
Deva? I mistook him to be a woman? I concluded that it
must be a girl, because of the closed palanquin!? But, did
Azlvar-adiyan Nambi also make the same mistake?
Vandiya Devan looked around to see if Nambi was still
thrusting his head above the wall. That spot of the palace
wall was now shrouded by shadows cast by the trees. He
could see nothing.
By now he heard some shouts from below. "Long Live
Madurandaka! Praise the Crown-Prince Madurandaka!
Victory to our brave spears!" They were passionate
outbursts. Vandiya Devan saw that all the men in the
courtyard were now standing; they held their swords and
spears high up above their heads and cheered. Thinking
that it would be dangerous to remain any longer in that
spot, he turned around and hurried back to his terrace and
laid himself down.
*****
Ponniyin Selvan
Chapter 9 -- Wayside Chitchat
Vandiya Devan had spent all his life until that day, in the
dry lands north of the River Palar. Consequently, he did
not know how to swim in a flowing river. Once, when he
was in the army on border patrol along the banks of the
North Pennar, he waded into the river for a bath. He was
caught in a swollen whirlpool. That sinister and devilish
whirlpool made him go round and round. At the same time
it dragged him downwards. Very soon the whirlpool had
drained all his strength. I cannot escape now; I have to
drown in this whirlpool and die! -- just as he lost hope he
was thrown out, by God's grace. The waves threw him on
the shores and saved him.
When he went back to bed that night in Kadamboor, he
experienced the same feeling he had while caught in the
whirlpool. He felt that with no choosing of his own, he
22
had fallen into the huge whirlpool of a political conspiracy.
Could he escape from this swirling treachery just as he had
escaped from that whirlpool?
The information he had gleaned from the midnight
meeting at Kadamboor baffled him. The dangers from
external enemies to the Chozla Empire had been overcome
only a few years ago. Prince Aditya Karikala -- brave,
expert in warfare, a veritable Chanakya in politics; with his
intelligence and optimum use of the capable Chozla
armies, he routed the powers of the Rashtrakuta monarch,
King Krishna, from the Thondai lands. In a way the
external enemies were destroyed. Now, internal disruption
and intrigue were raising their head. What would be the
consequence of this internal discord which is more
dangerous than external strife?
Are not the important officials, ministers, chieftains and
famous warriors of the Chozla nation involved in this
frightening endeavor? What kind of persons are the Lord
of Pazluvoor and his brother? What is their power? How
much prestige do they have? What about the others who
met here today? They are all powerful, distinguished and
eminent personalities. Is this the first meeting of this kind?
I wonder; to how many other places has the Prince been
taken in a closed palanquin by Lord Pazluvoor? Aha! The
fact of being married to a young girl in his old age has
served him so usefully in this conspiracy!
Until that day, no doubt about Prince Karikala's eligibility
to the Chozla throne had risen in Vandiya Devan's mind.
He had not even dreamed that a challenge would arise. Of
course, he had heard of Madurandaka, the son of King
Gandara Aditya. He had heard that, like the father the son
was an ardent worshipper of God Shiva. But he had never
heard anything about his rights to the succession or that he
would demand his rights. In fact Vandiya Devan had never
thought about such things.
What is the legality, the justice? Who is truly eligible to
succeed to the throne? Karikala? Madurandaka? The more
he thought about it, he felt that both sides had equal
justification. If it really comes to a confrontation, who will
come out victorious? What is my duty in this situation?
Aha! I started on this journey from Kanchi while building
all sorts of dream fortresses. I desired to attain eminent
positions in the Chozla Empire by pleasing the Crown
Prince Karikala! I even hoped that in due course I would
regain the ancestral territories of my Vaanar clan. The very
limb that I caught hold of, to achieve all these dreams,
seems ready to drop! ... Thinking of all such things when
he came to bed the second time that night, Vandiya Devan
suffered with sleeplessness for a long time. In the end,
towards the late hours of the night just as the eastern skies
were turning light, he somehow went to sleep.
The next morning, Vandiya Devan did not get up even
when the golden-red rays of the rising sun fell piercingly
upon him. He was jolted awake when Kandamaran came
and shook his shoulders. With the courtesy shown to any
guest, Kandamaran asked, "Did you sleep well?" And then
he added, "After all my other guests had gone to sleep, I
came up here and checked; you excelled in service like
Kumbakarna (a mythical hero who slept half his lifetime)!"
Stifling everything that he remembered, Vandiya Devan
said, "All that I recall is coming up to bed after the gypsy
dance. I am just getting up! Oh, ho! It is already so late: it
must be several hours past sunrise. I have to start
immediately. Kandamara, tell your servants to get my
horse ready."
"This is really fine! How can you leave so soon? What is
the hurry? You must stay here for at least ten days before
you go on," said Kandamaran.
"No, my dear fellow! I had news that my uncle in Tanjore
was in a bad shape; his survival itself is doubtful. I have to
go quickly to see him before he is gone. I must leave
immediately." Vandiya Devan said this with total
conviction, without any hesitation.
"You must then stay here for a while, at least when you go
back."
"Why not? We shall think of it at that time. Permit me to
leave now."
"Don't be in such a hurry. We can start after the morning
meal. I shall accompany you till the banks of River
Kollidam."
"How can you do that? You have all sorts of important
guests. How can you leave them and ..."
"I have no guest more important than you ..." saying this
Kandamaran stopped suddenly. "Yes the guests are
important people. But my father can take care of them. The
other officials of this palace can do that. I could not chat
with you even last night. I can rest in peace only if I
chitchat with you for a little while, along the road. I shall
certainly come with you till the Kollidam."
"I have no objection. Your wish. Your convenience," said
Vandiya Devan.
After more than two hours, both friends mounted on two
horses started from Lord Sambuvaraya's palace. The
horses cantered quite slowly. The ride was rather pleasant.
The friends did not seem to mind even the road dust
sprayed upon them by the swift northern wind. They had
lost themselves in old remembrances. After some time
Vandiya Devan said: "Kandamara! Even though I spent
just one night in your house, it was very useful to me. Just
one disappointment. You used to recount all sorts of things
about your sister, while we were on the banks of the North
Pennar. I could not even see her properly! When she
peeped from hiding behind your mother, I could glimpse
about one-eighth of her face! Your sister seems to possess
23
a shyness and modesty that is more than any one girl's
share."
Kandamaran's lips twitched as if to say something. But no
words came out.
"Still, no regrets. You have invited me to stay with you for
a few days on my way back. I can make her acquaintance
at that time. By that time your younger sister may be able
to overcome her shyness about me. Kandamara, what is
your sister's name?"
"Manimekala."
"Oh! What a delightful name! If her character and beauty
are like the name..."
Kandamaran intervened and said in a forlorn voice, "My
friend! I beg this one thing of you. Please forget my sister.
Please forget all that I mentioned about her to you. Do not
even utter her name."
"What is this Kandamara? Every thing seems topsy-turvy?
Even last night you hinted that I may become a son-in-law
to your clan!"
"It is true that I said it. Since then the situation has
changed. My parents have arranged to wed my young
sister elsewhere. Manimekala has also agreed."
Vandiya Devan cheered within his heart: "Long live
Manimekala." He did not have any trouble guessing who
was selected to wed Manimekala. They must have pledged
her to Madurandaka who stepped out of the closed
palanquin. They are perhaps arranging such marriage
alliances in order to gain strength for the Prince's cause.
Lord Pazluvoor is a dangerous and capable politician.
"Oh! You have contracted one of your rich guests who
came last night as the bridegroom. Kandamara, I have no
surprise about this; nor am I really disappointed. In a way
it was expected."
"Expected? How is that?"
"Who would give their daughter to a destitute-orphan like
me? Which maid will agree to marry a poor fellow who
has neither house nor land. What is the use now if my
ancestors had ruled kingdoms long ago?"
"My dear friend! Enough of this, stop! Don't think so
shoddily of me or my family. What you think, is not the
reason. There is something much more important. You will
agree if you know of it. But I cannot reveal the reason
now. When the time comes you will know."
"Kandamara, what is this? You have been talking quite
mysteriously today."
"Forgive me for that. It is a big secret that I cannot reveal
even to you. Whatever happens, trust me that nothing will
come between our friendship. When it is time to reveal
plans, I will run to you and disclose all the details. Trust
me until then."
"Thanks for the pledge! But what is the situation wherein
you may have to forsake me? And, I am not one to live
upon my faith in somebody else. I trust my own sword and
spear."
"There may be an opportunity to use that sword and that
spear soon. At that time I hope we will fight side by side.
Your dreams also may then be fulfilled."
"What is this? Are you soon expecting some war? Or, are
you planning to enter the battlefields of Lanka?"
"To Lanka? You will be surprised if you hear the details of
the ridiculous campaign in Lanka. I believe we have to
supply the rice and other foodstuffs from Chozla country
for the soldiers fighting in Lanka. Shameful! I am talking
about something else. Be patient for a while. I will tell you
at the right time. Don't kindle my mouth now."
"Alright. If you don't wish, don't tell me anything. Don't
even open your mouth. I think I can see the river ahead of
us."
They could really see the torrents of the immense River
Kollidam at the end of the road. Within a few minutes the
friends reached the river bank.
The fresh floods of the spring month filled that great river.
The far side seemed very distant. Trees on the other shore
seemed like small bushes. Reddish silt laden waters, filled
with rapids and whirlpools drawing fantastic pictures,
thundering joyously, celebrating with a loud roaring sound,
trying to break through the high banks on both sides,
rolling and tumbling towards the eastern sea, rushing
onwards -- Vandiya Devan looked upon this sight and
stood there in amazement.
A ferry boat waited near the landing wharf. Two boatmen
with long poles in their hands waited readily. One
gentleman was already seated in the boat. He appeared to
be of the Saiva sect. Catching sight of the two men coming
upon the bank, a boatman asked, "Sirs! Are you both
coming in this boat?"
"Yes. He will come. Wait for a while."
Both friends jumped off their horses. "I came without
thinking. What can I do with this horse of mine? Can it go
in the boat?" asked Vandiya Devan.
"No need. There! Look! Two of my footmen are following
us. One of them will lead your horse back to Kadamboor.
The other fellow will come with you in this boat. He will
24
procure another horse for you on the other shore," said
Kandamaran.
"Aha! How thoughtful. You are my true friend."
"You must have thought of the Kollidam as comparable to
the Palar and Pennar rivers. You wouldn't have known that
you cannot cross this river with a horse."
"Yes. Forgive me for under-estimating the rivers of your
Chozla lands. Gosh! What a river! What floods? It seems
to roar like the ocean."
The two friends took leave of each other with a hearty
embrace. Vandiya Devan walked down the river bank and
got into the boat. One of Kandamaran's footmen also
climbed into the boat. The boat was ready to leave. The
boatmen thrust their long poles deep into the water.
Suddenly, from a distance they could hear shouts: "Stop!
Stop the boat!" said a voice. The boatmen hesitated
without pushing their poles. The fellow who shouted came
running up the bank. With one glance, Vandiya Devan
recognized him. He was Azlvar-adiyan Nambi.
Recognizing the newcomer as a follower of the Vaishnava
sect, the gentleman in the boat said "Go! Let the boat go! I
will not come in the same boat as that imposter. Let him
come in the next ferry."
But Vandiya Devan looked at the boatmen and said, "Wait
a bit. Let him also come. There is plenty of room in this
ferry boat. Let us take him." Vandiya Devan wished to
question Azlvar-adiyan and learn more about the
happenings of last night.
*****
Ponniyin Selvan
Chapter 10 -- The Astrologer Of Kudanthai
River Ponni, born and raised in the Kudagu Hills, after her
childhood was past, wished to meet the Ocean King, her
chosen husband. She went swiftly, crossing hill and dale,
rocky mountain and canyon. As she came closer and
closer, the joyous anticipation of meeting her beloved
Lord, the Ocean King, made her thrive and grow. She went
even further. Two arms grew to embrace the lover.
Spreading her arms wide, she leaped and surged forward.
Two arms were not sufficient for her ardent enthusiasm.
Her loving arms grew into ten, twenty, hundred! Stretching
out all these arms in eagerness she neared the Ocean King.
She was the bride meeting her beloved. Chozla women,
her bridesmaids, dressed her in such wondrous ways. They
clothed her in the beautiful greens of rice-fields. They
decorated her with colorful flowers; and showered her with
fragrant woods. How can we describe the enchanting
kadamba and punnai trees on both her banks: they covered
her with pearls and rubies of flowers.
Who would not be overjoyed to cast their eyes upon you,
dear Ponni? Which maid will not be beguiled by this, your
bridal attire? It is but natural that attractive young girls
should gather around you just as bridesmaids surround a
ravishing bride.
One of the arms stretched out by Ponni or Cauvery, to
reach out for her Lord the Ocean King, is known by the
name River Arisil. The beautiful Arisil flows to the south
of and very close to River Cauvery. One could not easily
view this petite river from a little distance. The groves of
trees, growing thickly on both its banks hide the river. One
could consider the Arisil as a princess who never stepped
out of the enclosed courtyards of a royal palace. There is
no comparison to this beautiful virgin river.
Let our readers forget that it is the inner courtyard of a
palace and come with us to the banks of the Arisil river.
Let them enter these woody groves on its banks. Oh! What
an enchanting sight meets our eyes! It seems to add
radiance to beauty; to add sweetness to nectar.
Who are these divine women, seated on the beautifully
carved barge, constructed like a floating swan? Who is the
radiant jewel among women, seated in their midst, like the
full moon among twinkling stars, like a queen born to rule
all seven worlds? Who is the gentle damsel seated next to
her, playing the veena (lute like instrument)? Who are
these heavenly beauties coming down the stream, mixing
the pleasant melody of their music with the gurgling noises
of the river?
One of them had large eyes shaped like darting fish; the
other was blue eyed; yet another had a face like the
blossoming lotus; another girl had wide dark eyes shaped
like the petal of a blue lily. Ah! The girl playing the
musical instrument, one could watch forever, her soft
fingers dancing over the taunt strings of the veena.
What can we say about the sweetness of the song they
sang? Even the water in the river seemed to be still as it
listened to their melodious music. Even the cuckoos and
parrots on the trees listened quietly. We humans, blessed
with the fortune of being able to listen, why should we not
be enchanted by their song? Let us listen to them:
Walk slowly, walk shyly,
Praise to you, dear Cauvery;
Dress yourself in beautiful clothes:
Fragrant gardens full of humming bees;
Open wide, those large dark eyes:
Dancing fish of deep dark seas;
Dancing does not melt a lovers heart:
Like a good monarch's mace of justice;
When nightingales sing in deep woods;
And peacocks dance amidst flower groves;
Dance gently, dear Cauvery:
You disturb the garlands on Kama's shoulders.
The garlands at his waist are all asway;
What caused it? The very name of your dear Lord:
25
An expert spear like dart;
Walk slowly, walk shyly,
Praise to you, dear Cauvery.
Where have we heard this delightful Tamil poem? Oh yes,
is it not from The Silappadikaram (an ancient poetical
work)? The poem seems even more enchanting and
delightful when these maids sing it. Perhaps they are the
maids of honor in River Arisil's court? Or is this the magic
of some sorcerer? It entices every beholder.
The barge floated down gently till it stopped near a landing
amidst the woods. Two maidens are getting down. One is
that dignified lady, comparable to a queen of the seven
worlds; the other is her companion who was creating the
enchanting harmony while playing the veena. Though
both are beautiful, there was a difference between the two
of them. One has the dignity of a lotus blossom in full
bloom. The other has the pleasantness of the night-time
water lily. One is the radiant full moon; the other is the
young crescent of late evening. One is the dancing
peacock; the other is a singing nightingale. One is a queen
of the Gods; her friend is Rathi, the beloved of Cupid. She
is the fast flowing turbulent Ganga. Her companion is the
gentle Cauvery.
Without further ado, without leaving our readers in further
suspense, let me introduce these two ladies. The lady with
a certain dignity in her posture is Kundavai, the beloved
daughter of Emperor Sundara Chozla. She is the elder
sister to Arulmozli Varma who would later attain historic
fame as Rajaraja I. She is the lady revered by the people as
the young royal princess, the Younger Pirati. A
distinguished daughter of the Tamils, she laid the
foundations for the greatness of the Chozla Empire. She is
the capable lady who will raise and mould the ambitions of
Rajaraja's son Rajendra and make him the greatest of
monarchs in South Indian history.
Her friend is Vanathi, a noblewoman from the clan of
Kodumbalur chieftains. She came to enjoy the fortune of
being a part of Kundavai's household. In the future she
would attain greatness unparalleled in history. She is now
a young girl, full of modesty and a pleasant gentleness.
After both had alighted from the barge, Kundavai turned to
her other companions and said, "You can all wait here. We
will be back in an hour."
All those maids, who were her companions, were
noblewomen from the households of the aristocrats and
chieftains in the Chozla nation. They had come to the
Pazlayarai Palace, considering it a fortune to be included
as maids of honor to Kundavai. Now, when Kundavai went
ashore with just one girl from among them, saying, "I'll
come after a while," a certain envy and disappointment
could be discerned in their eyes.
A horse drawn chariot awaited their pleasure on the shore.
"Vanathi! Get into the chariot," said Kundavai. When both
were seated, the chariot moved swiftly.
"Akka! Where are we going? Can you tell me?" asked
Vanathi.
"Why not? We are going to the house of the Kudanthai
Astrologer," said Kundavai.
"Why are we going to an astrologer's house, Akka? What
do we have to ask him?"
"What else? To ask about you! For some months now you
seem to be a girl possessed, lost in some dream world,
losing weight. We are going to ask him if you will be
cured of these fantasies and become healthy once again.
We are going to ask him all these things!"
"Akka! Let good fortune be showered upon you! There is
nothing wrong with my health. We don't have to ask him
anything about me. Let's go back."
"No, my dear no! I am not going to ask him anything about
you. I shall ask him about me!"
"What do you have to ask about yourself? What is there to
ask an astrologer about yourself?"
"I am going to ask him if I would ever be married; or am I
going to spend all my life a virgin maid!"
"Akka! Why ask the astrologer about it? You have to ask
your own heart! Just nod you gracious head: princes from
all the fifty-six kingdoms from Cape Comorin to the
Himalayas would come running, vying with each other.
Why, even princes from across the seas from Yavana and
Kadaram will come. I wonder which of these princes will
have the fortune of receiving your hand. You have to
determine that!"
"Vanathi, even if I accept all that you say as truth, there is
one obstacle. If I marry any one of these princes from an
alien nation, I will have to go with him to his kingdom. My
dear, I have a great dislike to go away from this delightful
Chozla Kingdom where the Ponni flows! I have taken an
oath that I will not go to another kingdom from here.. ..."
"That is no obstacle! Any prince that marries you will stay
at your feet as your slave. If you order him to stay here he
will remain here."
"Oh dear Lord! That will be like picking up a rat and tieing
it up in your waistband! How can we retain an alien prince
in our lands? Do you know the consequences of such
activity?"
"Anyway, whatever you say, a person born as a woman
will one day have to be married. Is that not so?"
26
"No law says that my dear. Vanathi, think of the Lady
Avvaiyar. Did she not live for a long time as a queen
among poets but a virgin maid?"
"Because of a boon from the Gods Avvaiyar became an
old maid in her young age. You are not like that."
"Well if I do have to be married, I think I shall choose an
orphan Chozla warrior for my consort. That fellow will not
have any kingdom. He will not demand that I go to another
nation. He will remain here itself, in this Chozla country."
"Akka, does it mean that you will never leave these Chozla
Territories?"
"Never will I leave. Even if they offer to crown me as a
queen of the heavens, I will not leave!"
"Now I am quite happy."
"How is that?"
"If you move to another kingdom, I will have to follow
you. I cannot be parted from you. At the same time I have
no heart to leave this bountiful Chozla land!"
"If you are married, won't you have to leave?"
"I am not going to marry anyone, Akka."
"My dear girl! What happened to all the advise you were
giving me just now?"
"Am I like you?"
"You deceiver! I know everything! Are you trying to
throw dust in my eyes? You have no great love for this
Chozla land. The Chozla nation you love is bearing sword
and spear and has gone to Lanka to conduct a campaign!
You think that I do not know your secrets?"
"Akka! Akka! Am I so foolish? Where is the sun? and
where is the morning dewdrop? What is the use, if a
dewdrop wishes for the friendship of the fiery sun?"
"The dewdrop is small! And the sun is mighty and bright!
Still, does not the dewdrop impound the bright sunshine in
itself? Tell me?"
Vanathi now replied in a voice filled will cheer and
eagerness: "Are you saying that? Can a mere dewdrop
attain the sun?" Then suddenly she felt depressed. "The
dewdrop wishes to do so; in fact it enslaves the sunray!
But what use? Within a short time it is severely punished.
It dries up in the bright sunlight and disappears without a
trace!"
"That is wrong, Vanathi. The sun recognizes the love of
the dewdrop and merges her into himself. He thinks that
his beloved maid, the dewdrop, should not be seen by
other men. He lets her out again after darkness. Doesn't the
hidden dewdrop appear again every morning?"
"Akka, you are telling me all these stories to cheer me up."
"So! You do say that you need cheering up. There is some
sadness in your heart. All these days you maintained that
`Nothing is wrong'. That is why I am going to the
Astrologer of Kudanthai."
"If there is a sadness in my heart, what is the use of asking
an astrologer about it?" sighed Vanathi.
The house of the Kudanthai Astrologer was situated in the
outskirts of that city, in an isolated spot, besides a Kali
temple. The chariot did not enter the city, but went around
and reached that house. From the way the charioteer drove
his chariot without any hesitation or doubt, it appeared that
he had driven there several times before.
The Astrologer and one of his disciples waited readily
outside the house. The Astrologer welcomed his visitors
with great reverence and courtesy.
"Great lady! A reincarnation of both Kalaimagal (Goddess
of Learning) and Thirumagal (Goddess of Wealth)!
Welcome. Welcome. It is the fortune of my humble abode
that you have come in search of me once again!"
"Mr. Astrologer! I hope that nobody else will come in
search of you at this time?" asked Kundavai.
"No one will come Thaye! Not many people come in
search of me these days. Only when troubles in the world
increase will people seek the astrologer. Nowadays, under
the rule of your esteemed father -- The Emperor Sundara
Chozla -- the people have no troubles at all! They possess
all the comforts and luxuries and live life with happiness.
Who will come in search of me?"
"Do you mean to say that I have some troubles and
therefore, I have come to consult you?" asked Kundavai.
"No. Great lady, no. Which blind fool will say that the
beloved daughter of Sundara Chozla who possesses
immense wealth, has any troubles? Since the people have
no troubles, this poor astrologer is cast into misfortune.
Nobody takes care of him. Therefore you have come here
like a Goddess with solicitude for my troubles. Please
enter and grace my humble house. Look at me, talking
while I detain you here on the doorstep!" said the
resourceful Astrologer.
Kundavai turned to the charioteer and said, "Take the
chariot to the shade of the banyan tree behind the temple
and wait."
Kundavai and Vanathi entered the Astrologer's house as he
led them inside. The Astrologer turned to his disciple and
said warningly, "Wait outside and guard the entrance
27
carefully. Even if accidentally someone happens to come
by, do not let them enter."
The parlor in the Astrologer's house was decorated to
receive his royal visitors. In an alcove in the wall was a
decorated figure of the Goddess Devi. Two seats were
made ready for seating the visitors. A tall metal lamp was
lit. The floor gleamed with intricate kolam decorations.
Several tablets and palm leaf charts with the scribbles and
symbols of the astrologer's trade were scattered about.
After both ladies were seated, the Astrologer sat down.
"Madam, please tell me why you have come?"
"Sir! Can you not find out even that by your astrology?"
asked Kundavai.
"So be it, Thaye!" said the Astrologer and closed his eyes.
He muttered some incantations and after a while looked at
them saying "Lady, you have come here today, mainly to
ask about the horoscope of this young girl. That is what the
grace of the Goddess reveals to me."
"Aha! Remarkable! How can we praise your powers? Yes
sir! I have come to ask about this girl. She came to the
Pazlayarai Palace about a year ago. For the first eight
months she was very cheerful and happy. Amongst my
companions she was the most joyous, most filled with
playful laughter. For the last four months, something has
happened to her. Often, she seems depressed. She seems to
live in some abstract world. She has forgotten her laughter.
She says that nothing is wrong with her health. If her
parents come and ask me tomorrow, what reply can I
give?"
"Thaye! Is she not the beloved daughter of the Lord of
Kodumbalur? Is her name Vanathi Devi?" asked the
Atrologer.
"Yes; you seem to know everything."
"I even have the horoscope of this young Lady. I have it in
my collection. Please wait a little."
The Astrologer opened an old casket by his side and
searched awhile. He then picked up a palm leaf notation of
a horoscope and peered at it.
*****
Ponniyin Selvan
Chapter 11 -- Sudden Entry
The town known as Kumbakonam, was known as
Kudanthai or Kudamooku during the times of our story.
Besides the virtue of being a pilgrimage center, it was also
famous because of the Astrologer of Kudanthai. A little
distance to the south of Kudanthai, a majestic view of the
interim capital of the Chozla's, Pazlayarai, with its temple
towers and palace turrets reaching the skies, could be
glimpsed.
The Astrologer of Kudanthai had collected the horoscopes
of all the royal family living at the Pazlayarai Palace. He
had searched amidst this collection and found the
horoscope of Lady Vanathi of Kodumbalur. After peering
at the palm leaf notation of the horoscope for a while, he
stared at the face of Vanathi; then again looked at the
notation. He was peering and staring one after the other,
but did not open his mouth to utter a single word!
With a little impatience Kundavai asked, "What Sir? Are
you going to say something or not?"
"Thaye! What can I say? How can I say it? I had studied
this horoscope once before and could not believe it myself.
I doubted if anything could be like it and kept it aside.
Now, when I behold the divine face of this Lady and see
her horoscope at the same time, I am astounded!"
"Be amazed! Be astounded! After you have been
astounded enough, say something in particular."
"Madam, this is a very fortunate horoscope. I am saying it
with the belief that you will not mistake my words. This is
one step better than even your horoscope! I have never, till
now, seen such a lucky horoscope."
Kundavai smiled. Vanathi said with some shyness, "Akka!
He is calling this most unfortunate girl the luckiest person
in this world! Everything he utters will be like this."
"Amma, what are you saying? If my statements are
incorrect, I will give up my practice!" said the Astrologer.
"No. Mr. Astrologer, no. Don't do anything like that. Keep
predicting such good things to the people. But you are
uttering generalities; you have said nothing in particular.
That is why she doubts you."
"You want me to say something specific? Here, I will say
it. Four months ago, something that appeared to be an ill
omen occurred. Something slipped and fell. But in truth,
that is not an ill omen. It is from that incident that this
Lady will obtain all her good fortune."
"Vanathi, remember what I said? See?" said Kundavai
Devi.
"You must have told him about it before!" said Vanathi.
"Sir, look at the way this girl talks?"
"Let her talk Thaye, let her say whatever she wants now.
Tomorrow when she marries the king of kings ...."
"Yes, talk about such things! Young girls will listen
happily if you speak to them about marriage."
28
"That is what I have been saying too. If I suddenly raise
the topic of marriage, people will say `This old man has
lost his senses.' That is why ..."
"Where will her husband come from? When will he come?
What is his identification? Can you tell us all these things
from the horoscope, Sir?"
"Oh yes! Why not? I can say it very well." The Astrologer
peered into the horoscope once more. Whether he
examined it carefully or pretended to do examine it, none
can say!
Then looking up decisively he said, "Madam! A husband
for this maid does not have to come from very far! He is
quite nearby. However, that brave warrior is not in this
country now. He has gone across the seas."
Upon hearing these words, Kundavai looked at Vanathi.
Vanathi tried to contain the happiness that bubbled in her
heart; but could not do so: her face showed it.
"Then, who is he? What clan? Any signs to recognize
him?"
"Oh yes. Very clear signs. A prince fortunate enough to
marry this girl, will have the sign of the conch and discus
on his palms."
Once again Kundavai looked at Vanathi. But Vanathi was
looking down, almost hiding her face. "Won't there be
some signs or significant lines on her palms also?" asked
Kundavai Pirati.
"Thaye! Have you ever seen the soles of this girl's feet? ..."
"Sir! What are you saying? Are you asking me to touch her
feet?"
(Greeting a person by touching their feet denotes extreme
humility, or servitude.)
"No! Oh no! I am not saying anything like that! However,
sometime in the future, thousands of princesses, queens
and empresses will pray for the fortune of touching this
noble lady's feet."
"Akka! This old man is teasing me. Is it for this, that you
brought me here? Please get up; let us go" Vanathi said
this with some real anger.
"Why are you agitated my dear? Let him keep saying what
he wants ..."
"I am not saying anything. I am just explaining the
notations in this horoscope. Poets often talk about lotus
feet. Please ask this Lady to show me her feet a little bit.
Her sole will surely have the line of the red-lotus."
"Well! That's enough Sir. If you say anything more about
this girl, she will get hold of my hands and drag me out.
Tell us something about the man who is to be her
husband."
"Yes. Of course, I shall do so. The fortunate youth who
will take her hand will be the bravest among brave; he will
wear the victory garlands from fighting in the forefront of
hundreds of campaigns. He will be a king of kings. With
the praise and support of thousands of kings, he will sit
upon the throne of an emperor for a long time."
"I do not believe your words. How is that possible?" asked
Kundavai. Several emotions -- eagerness, happiness, fear,
doubt, worry -- danced on her face.
"I too don't believe it. He is thinking of something else and
saying all this. He is uttering such words to make you
happy!" said Vanathi.
"If you don't believe my words today, there is no harm.
One day you will believe it. Don't forget this poor
astrologer on that day."
Vanathi asked once again: "Akka, shall we go?" Two tear
drops peeped at the corners of her dark eyes.
"I have to tell you just one more thing. Please hear that
also and then leave. There will be several obstacles and
dangers for the young man who is to marry this Princess.
He will have several enemies ..."
"Oh!"
"But all the dangers and obstacles will fly away in the end.
Enemies will be totally destroyed; the Lord who attains
this Lady will cross all impediments and achieve great
positions. There is something much more important than
even this ... Thaye! I am an old man. Therefore, I can
reveal all without hiding anything. You should look at the
stomach of this girl sometime. If you do not find the lines
and sign of a banyan (ficus) leaf on her stomach, I will
give up my practice of astrology."
"Sir, what is so special about the sign of the banyan leaf?"
"Don't you know who the Lord who reposed on the banyan
leaf is? A son with the aspects of that great Vishnu will be
born to her. Her Lord is likely to have all sorts of dangers,
obstacles, impediments and bad periods. But the son who
is to be born of this Lady will have nothing that is a
deterrent. All that he thinks of will be concluded; anything
he undertakes will be completed; his touch will be golden;
wherever he steps will be under his sway; whatever he sees
will have the tiger-flag flying over it. Madam, the armies
led by her son will flow in all directions, with no
hinderance, like the fresh floods of the Ponni. The Goddess
of Victory will be his bonded slave. The fame of his native
lands will spread across the worlds. The fame of his clan
will last as long as this world exists!"
29
When the Astrologer spoke these words as if in some
frenzy, Kundavai was looking at him with rapt attention,
listening to every word he uttered. She was startled to turn
around upon hearing the distressed call, "Akka!"
"Something is happening to me," said Vanathi in further
distress. Suddenly she fainted and fell to the floor.
"Sir! Please fetch some water quickly," saying this,
Kundavai lifted Vanathi onto her lap. The Astrologer
brought some water. Kundavai sprinkled the water on her
friends face.
"Nothing will go wrong, Amma! Do not be concerned,"
said the Astrologer.
"I am not worried. This is her habit. This has happened
four or five times till now. She will open her eyes and get
up after some time. Upon waking she will ask if this is the
earth or paradise," said Kundavai.
Then, in a much softer voice she asked "Sir! I came to ask
you something very important. Have you any news?"
The Astrologer's manner changed; he said some words to
her very precisely and quickly.
Then, Kundavai Pirati asked, "I hear that people in the
countryside and cities are talking about all sorts of things.
The long tailed comet has been appearing in the skies for
sometime. Is there some meaning to all this? Is there some
danger to the empire? Will there be any change,
confusion?"
"Lady, don't ask me about that. There is no horoscope for
kingdoms, nations or political events; neither can I predict
anything by astrology about them. I know nothing about
such matters through the science I practice. Perhaps the
seers and philosophers or the devout and ascetic may be
able to foresee something. This poor fellow does not have
such powers. In politics the stars and planets of astrology
have no power." The Astrologer spoke these words with a
certain emphasis, looking at Vanathi who seemed to be
stirring.
"Sir! You talk very skillfully. You don't have to study the
horoscope of a nation. But can you not reveal particulars
about my father and my brothers? Isn't studying their
horoscopes like looking at the horoscope of the nation?"
"I will look into them at leisure and tell you. Thaye, in
general this period is full of confusion and danger. All of
us have to be a little careful."
"Sir! About my father..., the Emperor ... I am quite worried
ever since he moved to Tanjore from Pazlayarai."
"I have told you earlier, Madam. This is a period of grave
danger for the Emperor. All your family has to face great
danger. With the grace of the Goddess Durga all will be
overcome."
"Akka, where are we?" asked the faint voice of Vanathi.
Vanathi, who had her head on Kundavai's lap, blinked her
eyelids several times like the buzzing bee, and looked
around.
"Darling, we are still on this earth. The flower-laden
flying-chariot has not yet come to take us to the heavens.
Get up! Let us get into our mere horse drawn chariot and
go back to the palace."
Vanathi sat up and asked, "Did I faint?"
"No. You did not faint. You took a little nap on my lap. I
even sang you a lullaby. Did you not hear it?"
"Please do not scold me Akka. Without my awareness, I
felt dizzy."
"Yes. You will feel dizzy. Quite dizzy. If this Astrologer
had predicted all those grand fortunes for me, even my
head would feel dizzy."
"Not because of that Akka. You think I believed
everything he said?"
"I don't know if you believed it or not? But this Astrologer
was quite worried about you. I should not take a poor
spirited person like you, anywhere, anymore."
"I said that I did not want to come to this astrologer. You
insisted ..."
"It is my fault. Get up. Let us go. Can you walk to the
doorstep? Or, should I carry you on my hip?
"No. No. I can walk very well."
"Please have a little patience Thaye! I shall give you some
sacrament-offerings of the Goddess. Please receive them
before you go," said the Astrologer as he tidied his papers.
"Sir, you described all sorts of things for me. But you did
not say anything for Akka?" asked Vanathi.
"Amma, I have told everything to the Younger Pirati.
What is there to say afresh?"
"About the bravest of warriors who is to marry Akka ...."
"That dauntless gallant ...." interrupted Kundavai with
some surprise.
"Doubtless. A very capable prince..."
"He who has all the thirty-two signs of good looks; Jupiter
in wisdom; a veritable Saraswati (deity of learning) in
30
knowledge; handsome as Cupid, Oh no, as Arjuna (epic
warrior)!"
"When will that handsome prince, deserving of the
Younger Pirati come and where will he come from?"
"How will he come? Upon a horse? On a chariot? By
walk? Or, will he rip open the roof and jump down from
the skies?" asked Kundavai with a mocking voice.
"Akka, I can hear the hoof beats of a horse," Vanathi said
this with some agitation.
"You will hear most wonderful things unheard by anyone
else."
"No. I am not joking. Listen."
By now all three could hear the quick gallop of a horse on
the road outside.
"What if you hear it? Won't horses gallop along the road?"
said Kundavai.
"No. It seems to be coming here, to this house."
"OK. Get up. Let us go."
At this time they could hear some confused noises outside
the door. Voices could be heard.
"Is this the Astrologer's house?"
"Yes; who are you?"
"Is the Astrologer home?"
"You cannot enter."
"I will do so."
"I cannot let you."
"I must see the Astrologer."
"Come later."
"I cannot come later; I am in a great hurry."
"Hey! You! You fellow! Stop! Stop!"
"Damn it! Move away! I'll kill you if you stand in the
way."
"Sir! Sir! Please! Please! Don't enter! Don't go in."
The confused shouts came closer, and closer. The wooden
front door opened with a bang. With all this great
commotion, a young man made a sudden entry.
Another fellow was trying to drag him back by pulling at
his shoulders. The youth shook off the hands, stepped
across the doorway and came into the room.
Our readers would have guessed the identity of the
newcomer! Yes, it was our youthful hero, Vandiya Devan.
All the three pairs of eyes inside the house looked at that
warrior.
Vandiya Devan also looked at the people inside; no; he
looked at only one person inside. Not even that. He did not
see even Kundavai Devi completely. He just saw her
golden face. Did he at least see her face completely? -- not
even that! He saw the petals of her coral red lips, opening
slightly with surprise; he saw her wide open eyes
brimming with mischief, surprise and laughter; he saw the
dark eyelashes and eyebrows; he saw the sandal colored
forehead; he saw the rosy dimpled cheeks; he saw the
throat shaped like a smooth conch-shell. He saw all these
at the same time and individually! They became embossed
in his heart.
All this was for just a second. He quickly turned towards
the Astrologer's disciple and said, "Why man, inside ...
Why didn't you say that these ladies were inside the house?
If you had said it, would I have come in like this?" With
these words he pushed the man outside and crossed the
doorstep once again. Even then, he turned to look at
Kundavai once more, before going out.
"Dear me! It seems like the quiet after a raging storm!"
said Kundavai Pirati.
"Listen. The storm has not stopped!" said Vanathi of
Kodumbalur.
The debate between the Astrologer's disciple and Vandiya
Devan was still continuing.
"Sir! Who was that?" asked Kundavai.
"I do not know, Thaye. Seems like a foreigner; looks as if
he is a rough fellow."
Kundavai suddenly thought of something and laughed
brightly. "Why are you laughing, Akka?" asked Vanathi.
"Why am I laughing? We were talking about my
bridegroom -- if he would come on horseback, riding an
elephant or jump down from the roof; I thought of that and
laughed!"
Vanathi was also possessed of an uncontrollable laughter
now. Their laughter rose like waves on the ocean shore.
Because of their laughter even the noises of the dispute
outside stopped.
Immersed in silent thought the Astrologer gave kumkum to
both ladies. After receiving it both women rose and walked
outside. The Astrologer went along.
Vandiya Devan who was standing aside near the doorstep,
saw them and said loudly, "I beg pardon. This genius did
not tell me that you ladies were inside. That is why I
entered in such a hurry. Forgive me for that."
With a pleasant face and mischief- filled, teasing eyes,
Kundavai looked up at him once. She did not say a single
word in reply. She took hold of Vanathi's hand and walked
towards her chariot under the banyan tree.
31
"The women of Kudanthai seem to have no manners. Can
they not utter even one word in reply to a gentleman who
accosts them?" The words of Vandiya Devan spoken in a
loud voice could be heard by everyone.
After helping them both be seated, the charioteer also
climbed to his perch. The horse drawn chariot moved
swiftly towards the banks of River Arisil. Vandiya Devan
stood watching till the chariot disappeared from sight.
*****
Ponniyin Selvan
Chapter 12 -- Nandini
Don't we have to disclose how Vandiya Devan, whom we
had left in a ferry-boat on the banks of the Kollidam,
arrived at the doorsteps of the Astrologer of Kudanthai?
The Saiva gentleman, who objected to having Azlvaradiyan
in the boat, turned towards Vandiya Devan and
said, "I let this fellow get in because of you, Thambi.
However, as long as we are in this boat he should not utter
that eight-letter word. If he says it, I shall demand that he
be thrown into this Kollidam! These boatmen are my
men!"
"Sir! Devout Mr. Nambi! Did thy hallowed ears hear it?"
asked Vandiya Devan.
"If this fellow does not utter the five-letter word, I too shall
not utter the holy-name of eight-letters" said Nambi.
(Note: The eight letter word is the name of Vishnu -- namo-
sri-na-ra-ya-na-ya -- worshipped by the Vaishnava
sect; the five letter word -- na-ma-si-va-ya -- denotes Shiva
worshipped by the Saiva sect.)
"Who is this fellow to object to my uttering the fivelettered
holy name of the great God Shiva? No! Never!
Though you may be bound by chains
and thrown into the deepest seas,
Your only companion and hope is
the name na-ma-si-va-ya!"
These words were uttered in a roaring voice by the Saiva
gentleman. Upon hearing it, Azlvar-adiyan began singing
in a louder voice:
I searched, and upon searching found
the holy name,
Na-mo-sri-na-ra-ya-na-ya;
Saying the words, "Siva, Siva, Sivaa!" the gentleman stuck
both his index fingers into his ears! When Azlvar-adiyan
stopped singing, he took his fingers out of his ears.
Azlvar-adiyan looked at Vandiya Devan and asked,
"Thambi, you ask that fanatic Saiva fellow. He is in such
agony when he merely hears God's name! Does not this
river Kollidam wash the lotus feet of God Narayana who
reposes in Srirangam and then come down here? Is it not
because these waters, which have touched the feet of
Narayana, have become hallowed, that Shiva performs
penance while immersed in these waters at Thiru-anaikava?"
Before he could conclude this long story, the Saiva zealot
became very furious and rushed towards the equally
fanatic Vaishnava Nambi. Since both entered into a fist
fight at one end of the boat, it seemed as if the ferry-boat
would soon capsize! One of the men and Vandiya Devan
intervened and separated them.
"Oh, you great and best of devout souls! Both of you seem
to have a wish to drown in the floods of this Kollidam and
go directly to paradise! But I have several other
engagements left on this beautiful earth," said Vandiya
Devan with some disgust.
One of the boatmen articulated his opinion, "I am not sure
if one would definitely enter paradise if he falls into the
Kollidam! But, I guarantee that you would enter the
innards of a crocodile! Look over there!" His finger
pointed at a big crocodile with its terrorizing, wide open
jaws.
"I am not one bit scared about those crocodiles. Would he
not come to my aid, Lord Narayana the original God, who
saved the elephant Gajendra from such a crocodile? Where
would he go?" said Azlvar-adiyan.
"Where would he go? Perhaps he is hiding in the sari-folds
of the milkmaids of Brindavan!"
"Perhaps Shiva is entangled in another predicament: just
like that time when, having given boons to the demon
Bhasma, he was running around with terror; perhaps
Thirumal has gone to save him from yet another such
predicament," retorted Nambi.
The fanatic Saiva replied: "Perhaps this fanatic ignoramus
does not remember how Vishnu's pride was demolished
during the burning of Tripura?"
"Why do you argue like this? I don't know! Why don't
each of you worship the God to whom you are devoted?"
said Vandiya Devan.
It would be appropriate to explain to our readers at this
time, why the Saiva devotee and Azlvar-adiyan argued in
this fashion and why there was a similar wordy duel at
Veera-narayana-puram.
In the ancient Tamil land, for almost six hundred years,
(up till about the tenth century AD) the religions of
Buddhism and Jainism held prestigious sway. Because of
these religions, the Tamil land gained several advantages.
Sculpture, painting, poetry, literature and other such arts
were nurtured and developed. Emphasis was on Sanskrit.
32
Later the Azlvar's (Vaishnava saints) and Nayanmar's
(Saiva saints) appeared. They sang melodious poems --
devotional songs in nectar-sweet, divine Tamil. They
fostered and developed the Vaishnava (of Vishnu) and
Saiva (of Shiva) sects of Hinduism. Their preaching was
quite powerful. They utilized the power of art, sculpture
and music for their missionary work. Several others set
their songs to divine music and sang them. Those who
listened to these musical poems were enticed, enamored
and subject to fanatic devotion. The Shiva and Vishnu
temple-towns mentioned in such devotional songs acquired
new merit and fresh holiness. Temples, which till then
were built with wood and brick, were renovated and rebuilt
with stone and sculpture. Such holy renovation-works
were undertaken even since Vijayala Chozla's times by the
Chozla monarchs and members of their family as well as
other nobility.
At about the same time an important event occurred in the
Kerala nation. A great soul was born in the village of
Kaladi. At a very young age he gave up worldly pleasures
and became an ascetic. He studied all the sciences and
literature in the northern language (Sanskrit) and became
an expert. He then established the foundation for the
Advaita philosophy, based on the principles gained from
the Hindu scriptures -- Vedas, Upanishads, Bhagavat Gita
and Brahma Sutras because of his expertise in Sanskrit.
He, Sankara the Teacher, traveled all over the Indian subcontinent
and established eight religious-seats for
propagating Advaita philosophy. Ascetics who espoused
his philosophy spread his word all over the country.
(Advaita meaning non-dual, advocates the non-dual nature
of existence; that God is only one; and that God and man
are one and the same.)
Thus, in the Tamil lands, during the times of our story
(tenth century AD) there was a great religious revival and
awakening. Certain harmful consequences, arising out of
this revival, also spread throughout the countryside.
Fanatic Shiva devotees and fanatic Vishnu devotees rose
here and there. They entered into fights wherever they met
each other. Sometimes, Advaita philosophers also entered
into these disputes. Wordy duels often turned into fistfights
and brawls.
There is an interesting story that reveals the extent of this
rivalry between the religious sects of those times. A man
from Srirangam, of the Vaishnava sect, was once walking
along the outer walls of the Shiva temple at Thiru-anaikava.
Suddenly a stone hit his head. He was wounded and
bleeding. The Vaishnava man looked up towards the sky.
He saw a crow sitting atop the old temple tower and
surmised that a piece of brick from the dilapidated spire
dislodged by the crow must have fallen on his head.
Immediately he forgot his wound and pain and became
quite delighted. He said, "Oh you devout Vaishnava crow
from Srirangam! Good that you are demolishing this Shiva
temple completely!"
In those days, this fanatic rivalry between the Vaishnavas
and Saivas was widespread. Knowing about this will be
very helpful to readers who may have the intention of
reading further chapters in this story.
When the boat reached the other shore, the Saiva
gentleman looked at Azlvar-adiyan and cursed him with
these words: "May you loose all prosperity and become
utterly destitute," before he went on his way.
The footman from Kadamboor who had come with
Vandiya Devan went away towards the nearby village of
Thiru-panan-thal, saying that he would come back with a
mount for him. Azlvar-adiyan and Vandiya Devan sat
down under a large banyan tree on the river bank. Several
kinds of birds roosting in the thick, leafy branches of that
wide-spreading, large tree raised a pleasing musical sound.
Both of them, Devan and Nambi, tried to pry the secrets
from each other's mouths. For a while they talked of this
and that in a round-about fashion.
"Well Thambi, you did go to Kadamboor without taking
me with you?"
"Even my entry into that fortress was fraught with great
difficulty, Mr. Nambi."
"Is that so? How did you go in? Perhaps you did not go at
all?"
"I did enter. I did go in. If I make up my mind to do
something will I take a backward step? The gate-keepers
stopped me. I goaded my horse to gallop inside and all the
men obstructing my way fell away in confusion. Before
they could rise and surround me, my friend Kandamaran
came to my rescue and took me inside."
"That's what I thought. You are a very courageous fellow!
And then, what happened? Who else had come there?"
"All sorts of dignitaries had come. I do not know their
names. Lord Pazluvoor had come. His young bride had
also come. Dear me! How shall I describe the beauty of
that lady!"
"What? Did you see her?!"
"Yes. Why not? My friend Kandamaran took me to the
inner courts of the women. I saw her there. Amidst all
those women, the Young-Queen of Lord Pazluvoor was
the greatest beauty. Among all the dark-colored beauties,
that queen's face shone like a radiant full-moon. All the
heavenly beauties: Ramba, Urvasi, Tilottama, Indrani,
Chandrani -- all of them must be mentioned only after
her."
"Dear me! You describe her with such rapture! Then, what
happened? Did you see the gypsy dance?"
33
"Yes. It was very captivating. I thought of you at that
time."
"I was not fortunate to see it. What happened after that?"
"The velan attam (oracle-dance) took place. The `divineman'
and `divine-woman' came upon the stage and danced
with frenzy."
"Did the spirit manifest? Did they declare any oracle?"
"Oh, yes! `All endeavors will be achieved. The rains will
be good; the land will be bountiful,' said the soothsayer."
"Is that all?"
"He then said something about political affairs. I did not
listen to that carefully."
"Dear, dear me! Is that so? You should have noticed
Thambi! You are a young man; you seem to be brave and
courageous. If anybody talks about political affairs at any
place, you should listen carefully."
"You say the truth. I too felt the same thing this morning."
"Why feel so in the morning?"
"This morning my friend Kandamaran and I talked all
along the way as we rode to the banks of the Kollidam. I
believe that after I had gone to bed last night, all the
dignitaries who were at Kadamboor convened a midnightmeeting
to discuss some important political affairs."
"What did they discuss about?"
"That, I do not know. Kandamaran said something in a
cryptic fashion but he did not explain clearly. He said that
some event was to take place very soon and that he would
explain at that time. All his statements were rather
mysterious. Why Sir! Do you know anything?"
"About what?"
"Everybody in the countryside and city is talking about it?
A comet can be seen in the skies and the empire may be
subject to some grave danger; there may be a change in the
Chozla monarchy; this and that ... Such talk has been heard
even in the Thondai lands. Also, I believe that all sorts of
important officials meet together quite often, to discuss
about the `Rights to the succession' of the Chozla throne.
What do you think? Who is likely to succeed to the
throne?"
"I don't know anything about such matters. What
connection do I have with political affairs? I am a devout
Vaishnava; I am a slave to those who serve the Azlvar
saints; I sing the devotional songs that I know and go from
one holy place to the other."
After uttering these words Azlvar-adiyan began singing the
following words:
I spied upon his golden presence;
I saw his divine grace.
Vandiya Devan interrupted him, "Let good fortune be
yours. Please stop this."
"Dear me! You ask me to stop singing these divine Tamil
psalms!"
"Mr. Azlvar-adiyan Nambi! I have a suspicion. Shall I
disclose it?"
"Please do."
"You will not come to beat me up with your woodenstaff?"
"You? Is it possible for me to hit you?"
"I think that all your devotion, your Vaishnava fanaticism,
your psalm singing -- everything is one big deception. I
suspect it to be a big masquerade!"
"Oh! Oh! What talk is this? Offense! Abuse!"
"No offense and no forgiveness. You put on such guise to
hide your womanizing! I have seen some others like you:
who wander around with an obsession for womankind.
What you find in such women, that I do not know! I seem
to dislike any woman I see.
"Thambi, I too know of some men who are crazy about
women. But don't mix me up with such fellows. I am not a
masquerader. Your suspicions are incorrect."
"Then why did you ask me to deliver your note to the girl
who came in the palanquin? That too, how can you lose
your heart to a woman who is married to another? Did you
not want to come to Kadamboor mainly to see her? Don't
deny it."
"I won't deny it. But your reasoning is not correct. There is
a much more appropriate justification. It is a long story."
"My horse hasn't arrived yet. Tell me that story. I can
listen."
"By `story' I do not mean an imaginary tale. It happened
truly. An astonishing account. You will be shocked if you
hear it. Do you want me to recount it?"
"If you would like to."
"Alright. I shall tell you. I am in a great hurry to go
someplace else; nonetheless, I will tell you that story
before I go. I may need your help sometime later. You
won't refuse it then, will you?"
34
"If it is justified I will help you. If you do not like it, don't
tell me anything."
"No. No. I must surely tell you the story. The young bride
of that demon, Lord Pazluvoor, the girl to whom I asked
you to carry a note, her name is Nandini. You will be
surprised if you hear what I have to say about Nandini.
You will wonder if there can be such atrocities in this
world." With this preamble, Azlvar-adiyan started
narrating the story of Nandini.
Azlvar-adiyan Nambi was born in a village on the banks of
the River Vaigai, in the Pandiya Kingdom. All his family
were ardent Vaishnava devotees. One day, his father was
walking in the gardens along the river bank when he found
an orphan baby girl who was abandoned in the garden. He
brought the infant home. Because the child was very
attractive and beautiful, all the members of his family
loved and nourished her. Since the child was found in a
garden (nandavan), they named her Nandini. Nambi,
considering her a younger sister, loved and cherished her.
As Nandini grew in years, her devotion to God Vishnu also
grew. All the people around them believed that she would
become another Andal (Vaishnava saint) to captivate all
their hearts. Azlvar-adiyan believed it more than anyone
else. After his father's death, he took up the responsibility
of raising that girl. The two of them travelled from one
town to another, singing Vaishnava poems and spreading
the belief in devotion to Vishnu. People who heard
Nandini, wearing basil-leaf garlands and singing the
psalms of the Azlvar saints, were enchanted.
At one time Azlvar-adiyan had to go on a journey to Thiruvenkadam
(Tirupati). His return was delayed. A mishap
occurred to Nandini.
The final great-battle between the Chozla and Pandiya
kings was fought near Madurai City. The Pandiya armies
were totally destroyed. King Veera-pandiya had fallen in
the battlefield with wounds all over his body. Some of his
personal servants found him: they tried to revive him and
save his life; they brought him away from the battlefield
and into the house of Nandini which was nearby. Nandini,
upon seeing the condition of the Pandiya king, was filled
with pity and she nursed him in the sickbed. However, the
Chozla soldiers soon found this out. They surrounded
Nandini's house, entered inside and killed Veera-pandiya.
Lord Pazluvoor, captivated by the beauty of Nandini
whom he found there, imprisoned her and took her away
with him.
All this happened three years ago. After that Azlvar-adiyan
could not see Nandini at all. From that day, Azlvar-adiyan
was trying to meet and talk to Nandini. If she wished it, he
would free her and take her away. He had not succeeded in
that endeavor so far.
Upon hearing this tale, Vandiya Devan's heart was
touched. For a second, he considered telling Nambi that
the person inside the covered palanquin in Kadamboor was
not Nandini; that it was Prince Madurandaka. Something
in his heart prevented him. Perhaps all this tale was the
fertile imagination of Azlvar-adiyan. Therefore, he did not
reveal the secrets he had learned at the Kadamboor
fortress. By now they could see the footman from
Kadamboor coming back, leading a horse.
"Thambi, will you do me one favor?" asked Azlvar-adiyan.
"How can I help you? Lord Pazluvoor is capable of
controlling all this Chozla Empire. I am a single fellow
with no powers. What can I do?" Vandiya Devan answered
him carefully. Later he asked, "Mr. Nambi, are you saying
that you do not know anything about political affairs? Can
you say who is eligible to succeed to the Chozla throne if
something happens to Sundara Chozla?" After saying this
he examined Nambi's face eagerly to see if there was any
change in his expression. There was not an iota of change.
"What will I know of such matters, Thambi? Perhaps, if
you ask the Astrologer of Kudanthai, he may be able to tell
you something."
"Oh? Is the Astrologer of Kudanthai that capable?"
"Very capable. He will make predictions based on
astrology; he will know your mind and explain the future.
He knows all the worldly activities and will base his
predictions accordingly."
Vandiya Devan made up his mind to see the astrologer
before he went any further! From ancient times humanity
is fascinated in finding out about what will happen in its
future. Princes have this fascination; paupers have it too.
The most learned and knowledgeable have it; the foolish
and ignorant ones also do so. There is no surprise about the
fact that our youthful hero, Vandiya Devan, who was
travelling upon secret government affairs across cities and
nations, had such a fascination.
*****
Ponniyin Selvan
Chapter 13 -- The Waxing Moon
The Astrologer led Vandiya Devan into the house after the
chariot carrying the princesses had disappeared from view.
He seated himself on his best seat. He asked the youth who
was looking around to sit down and examined him from
head to toe.
"Thambi, who are you? Where have you come?"
Vandiya Devan laughed.
"Why are you laughing, my son?"
35
"Nothing. You are such a famous astrologer. You ask me
such questions! Can you not find out by your astrology
about who I am and why I came here?"
"Oh! Is that so? I can find out. But if I find out and predict
things on my own behalf, I am wondering who will pay for
my services."
Vandiya Devan smiled and then asked, "Sir! Those two
who came here before me, who are they?"
"Ah! Them? I realize whom you are asking about. I know
Thambi, I know. Are you not asking about the persons
who were in here when you dragged my disciple and made
a sudden entry into my house? You are asking about them
aren't you? Those two, who left in that swift chariot raising
the road dust behind them, you are asking about them?"
said the Astrologer in a rambling fashion.
"Yes. Yes. I am asking about them..."
"OK. Ask. Ask as much as you wish. Who said not to ask?
Those two persons were two women!"
"That was obvious even to me! Sir, I am not blind. I can
differentiate between men and women. Even if it is a man
masquerading as a woman I can find out."
"Then, why did you ask ..."
"Women means, who are they, what kind? ..."
"Oh ho! You are asking about that! According to the
science of beauty, women are classified into four kinds:
padmini, chittini, gandarvi, vidyadari. You seem to have
some expertise in the study of beauty! According to that
fourfold classification those two women belong to the
padmini or gandarvi class."
"Oh God!"
"What, my son?"
"If I call out to God, why do you answer?"
"What is wrong in that? Haven't you heard that God is
everywhere? It seems that you have not kept company with
learned people. God is in me. God is in you too. My
disciple, whom you dragged inside, God is in him too..."
"Enough. Enough. Please stop!"
"God asked me to talk all this time; and now God
commands me to stop!"
"Sir! Mr. Astrologer, those two women who left just now -
- who are they? What is their family? Where do they come
from? What is their name? -- that is what I asked. If you
can answer me without rambling like this ..."
"If I answer you, what will you give me, my son?"
"I shall offer you my thanks gladly."
"You can keep the glad offering to yourself. If you are
willing to give some gold offering, let me know."
"Will you answer clearly, if I make a gold offering?"
"I will answer only if an answer is possible. Thambi, listen
to this. Several persons will come and go from an
astrologer's house. One should not talk about one visitor to
another. I will not tell you anything about the persons who
left just now. Neither will I disclose a single word about
you, to any person who may come later and ask about
you."
"Ah! Everything that Azlvar-adiyan Nambi said about you
seems to be true!"
"Azlvar-adiyan? Who is he? A person with that name?"
"What, don't you know him? He talked as if he knew you
very well. Have you never heard of Azlvar-adiyan
Nambi?"
"Perhaps I know the man. Don't remember the name.
Describe him a little, let me see."
"He is short and squat. He wears his hair in a topknot on
his forehead. He wears his vaetti (loose lower garment of
men) tightly around his young paunch. Making a paste of
sandal powder, he wears it in vertical marks all over his
body; readily enters into fiery fights with devout Saivas; if
he sees an Advaita philosopher, he raises his wooden staff.
Sometime ago you said `You are God; I am God.' If
Azlvar-adiyan had heard it, he would have raised his staff
and rushed over to beat you, by saying `God is hitting
God.' He ..."
"Thambi, From what you say, I think you are talking about
Thirumalai."
"Does he go by other names like that?"
"That fanatic Vaishnava has a different name in different
towns."
"Does he also disguise himself in different garbs for
different persons?"
"Oh yes! He will put on masquerades appropriate for the
occasion and time."
"Will everything he utters be mixed with fancy and
falsehood?"
36
"About seven eighths of what he says will be full of
imagination. The rest may be gospel truth."
"So, you say that he is a very wicked fellow."
"One cannot say that! He is good to the good; bad to the
wicked."
"That means we cannot trust his words and do anything."
"Believing or not believing depends on the words uttered."
"For example, he said that if I come to you and asked you
for astrological predictions, you will give expert
answers..."
"Did I not say that about one eighth of his speech will be
gospel truth? That statement belongs to that category!"
"Then predict something for me by your astrology; foretell
something. It is getting late and I have to go in a hurry."
"Where do you have to go in such a great hurry, my son?"
"Can you not reveal that also from your astrology? Where
should I go? Where should I not go? If I do go, will my
endeavor be successful? -- I came to ask you all these
things."
"I need some basis to foretell or predict by my astrology; I
need a horoscope to study; if there is no horoscope, I must
at least know the day and star under which you were born.
If you do not know even that, I need a name and address."
"My name is Vallavarayan."
"Aha! Of the Vaanar clan?"
"Yes I am that very same Vandiya Devan Vallavarayan."
"Say it like that! Thambi why did you not say this before?
I think, I even have your horoscope with me. If I search for
it I can find it."
"How is that Sir?"
"What other occupation do astrologer's like me have? We
collect the horoscopes of men and women born in noble
families..."
"I am not from any such famous noble family."
"How can you say that? Do you not know of the fame and
prestige of your clan? How many poets have sung the
praises of the Vaanar clan in how many poems? Perhaps
you have not heard the poems?"
"Recite one such poem. Let me hear it."
The Astrologer immediately sang the following poem:
Are there lips that do not speak of your fame: oh noble Vaana?
Are there chests that do not have your name tattooed on: oh brave Vaana?
Are there flagpoles that do not bear thy colors: oh victorious Vaana?
Are there domains that stand beyond your survey: oh majestic Vaana?
When he sang, it was quite obvious that the Astrologer was
not a musical expert. Nevertheless, he sang the poem
clearly and with involvement.
"How is the poem?" he asked.
"The poem is pleasing to the ear! But now, I have to tie my
colors to the horns of some bull! I have to stand atop the
branches of a banyan tree to survey my domain. Even that
is doubtful. My weight might break the branch and throw
me down!" said Vandiya Devan.
"Today your situation is like that. How do we know what
can happen tomorrow?"
"I thought that you might know; that is why I came here."
"What can I know Thambi? Like everybody I am a short
lived human being. But the planets and stars foretell the
future. I have learned to understand a little of what they
say and then explain it to those who seek me."
"What do the planets and stars foretell about me, Mr.
Astrologer?"
"They foretell that you will grow day by day."
"Dear me! That is pretty good! The height that I have now
is itself quite too much. I had to bend low as I entered your
house! What can I do if I grow taller? There is no use of
such generalities. Say something specific."
"If you ask me about something particular, I can answer
more specifically."
"Tell me, the enterprise on which I am going to Tanjore,
will it succeed?"
"If you are going to Tanjore on your own behalf the
endeavor will succeed; if you are going on someone else's
behalf, I have to see that persons horoscope before I
answer."
Vandiya Devan shook his head in astonishment and placed
a finger upon his nose. "Sir, I have never encountered as
astute a fellow as you."
"Do not flatter me, Thambi."
"Ok. I shall ask what I want clearly. I wish to meet the
Emperor in Tanjore. Is that possible?"
37
"There are two astrologers greater than me in Tanjore. You
have to ask them."
"Who are they?"
"One is the Elder Lord Pazluvoor; the other is his brother
the Younger Lord Pazluvoor."
"It is said that the health of the Emperor is in a bad state. Is
that true?"
"People will say all sorts of things. Why not? Don't believe
all that they say; neither should you repeat such things."
"Can you tell me who has the right to succeed to the
Chozla throne if something happens to the Emperor?"
"That throne is not for you nor for me. Why should we
bother about it?"
"From that fate we are saved!" said Vandiya Devan.
"It is true Thambi. The rights of succession to an empire is
not an ordinary matter. It is a very dangerous topic. Is that
not so?"
"Sir! At present the Prince who is in Kanchi, the Crown
Prince Aditya Karikala..."
"Yes he is there; you have come on his behalf. Haven't
you?"
"You have found that out in the end; no harm done. What
about his fortune?"
"I don't have his horoscope in my hands now Thambi. I
have to study it."
"What about the fortunes of Prince Madurandaka?"
"His, is a peculiar fortune; similar to that of womenfolk.
His fortunes are always subject to the power of others."
"Even now people say that the Chozla Empire is under
Women's Rule. They say that it is worse than the rule of
the Queen Alli?"
"Thambi, where do they say such things?"
"To the north of the Kollidam."
"Maybe they are talking about the power of the new bride
married by the Elder Lord Pazluvoor."
"I heard differently."
"What did you hear?"
"They said that the beloved daughter of the Emperor, the
Younger Pirati Kundavai, is the one ruling like that."
The Astrologer peered into Vandiya Devan's face
carefully. He tried to read the face to find out if he was
saying these words after recognizing Kundavai, who had
left his house a little earlier. There was no sign to support
the doubt.
"Totally wrong Thambi. Emperor Sundara Chozla is in
Tanjore. Kundavai Pirati lives in Pazlayarai. Moreover ..."
"Moreover what? Why did you stop?
"During the daytime one must look in all four directions
before speaking; at nighttime not even that. But, there is
nothing wrong in telling you, I think. What power or
influence does the Emperor have these days? All the
authority is held by the Lords of Pazluvoor." After saying
this the Astrologer examined Vandiya Devan's face once
again.
"Sir! I am not a spy of the Lords of Pazluvoor. You do not
have to suspect me of that! A little while ago you talked
about the impermanence of kingdoms and royal dynasties.
You gave me the example of my own Vaanar clan. Please
tell me the truth. How is the future of the Chozla
Dynasty?"
"I can tell truthfully without any uncertainty. Towards the
end of spring the River Cauvery and its tributaries will be
filled with new floods. The people living on the river
banks know very well that it is a flood that will rise day by
day. Till the beginning of the summer months the flood
will keep rising. By the autumn months the waters start
receding. The people living along the bank realize it to be
a ebbing flood. The Chozla Empire is now like the fresh
flood of springtime that grows day by day. For several
more hundreds of years it will grow and spread. The
Chozla Empire is now a Waxing Moon. The day of the
Full Moon is far away. Therefore the Chozla power will
expand more and more."
"After talking all this time, you have said one thing
explicitly! Thanks! If possible, just tell me one more thing.
I have a great desire to go on a ship and travel to distant
lands..."
"That wish will definitely be fulfilled. You have the
fortune of the wheel. You will be travelling constantly, as
if you have wheels on your feet. You will go by walk; ride
upon horses; go on elephants and you will also travel
aboard ships. You have the fortune to go on a sea voyage
very soon."
"Sir, about the Commander of the Southern Armies, Prince
Arulmozli Varma who is now conducting a campaign in
Lanka -- what do the planets and stars say about him?"
"Thambi, those travelling by ship use an instrument made
of the magnetic stone to find their directions. Lighthouses
also help these sailors. But do you know what aids the ship
38
in the midst of the wide open seas? What is the constant
friend of the sailors? It is the pole star seen in the low
northern skies. The other stars and planets all keep moving
from their positions. Even the group of the `seven seers'
(little dipper) travels in a circle. But the pole star is never
shaken from its fixed position. The younger son of the
Emperor, Prince Arulmozli, is like that pole star. He has
the firmness of mind unshaken by anything. In addition to
the virtues of selflessness and morality, he possess the
goodness of bravery and chivalry. He excels in worldly
knowledge as much as in learning. He has a charming face,
like that of a young babe which calms the aches of those
who gaze upon it. He is the darling son of the angel of
good luck. Just as sailors take direction from the pole star,
it will be very useful, if youths like you who embark on the
adventure of life, take direction from Prince Arulmozli."
"Dear me! What is all this that you describe about Prince
Arulmozli? It appears like a lover describing his beloved?"
"Thambi, if you ask any fellow of the Chozla country on
the banks of the River Ponni, he will say the same."
"Many thanks Mr. Astrologer. If the need arises I shall
follow your advice."
"Because I saw that your lucky planets are also on the rise,
I said this."
"I shall take leave of you Sir! Along with my heartfelt
thanks, offered gladly, please accept this small tribute of
gold offered to you." Saying this, Vandiya Devan placed
five gold coins in the palms of the Astrologer.
"The benevolence of the Vaanar clan has not died even
now!" said the Astrologer as he hid the coins in his
waistband.
*****
Ponniyin Selvan
Chapter 14 -- A Crocodile On The River Bank
In those days, those who wished to reach Tanjore from
Kudanthai, travelled along the banks of the rivers Arisil or
Cauvery and reached the town of Thiru-vai-aru. From
there, they would turn south to go towards Tanjore.
Convenient ferrys or fords to cross the rivers Kudamuruti,
Vettar, Vennar and Vadavar were available only along that
route. Vandiya Devan who started from Kudanthai, first
went towards the banks of River Arisil. The sights that he
saw along the way astonished him, being more exquisite
than what he had heard about the Chozla countryside. Any
beautiful sight appears more striking when it is viewed for
the first time!
Emerald green rice fields, gardens of ginger and turmeric,
plantations of sugarcane and banana, groves of tender
coconut palms; streams, rivulets and brooks; tanks, pools
and canals; all these made a mosaic of the landscape.
Water-lilies bloomed in profusion in the creeks; Lotus and
blue-lily were in riotous display on still-water ponds and
pools. The large red-, white-, and blue-lotus flowers
dazzled his eyes. He had never seen such flowers before!
White storks and herons flew in large groups like soft
clouds. Red-legged cranes stood on one leg and performed
penance. Crystal clear water rushed frothing along
conduits. Farmers ploughed their rice paddies -- muddy
fields, darkened with good fertilizer and rotting leaves --
even deeper. Women transplanted seedlings in the well
tilled fields. As they were bent on their task they sang
pleasant folk-songs.
Sugar mills were established next to the cane plantations.
They fed the mature, dark cane of the previous year's
harvest into those mills and extracted sweet-juice. The
aroma of the fresh juice and boiling molasses being made
into sugar-candy and jaggery filled the air and tingled the
nose.
Small cottages with roofs thatched with coconut palmleaves
and houses with tiled roofs were found amidst the
palm groves. In the villages, they had cleaned the streets
and front porches to a mirror brightness and decorated
them with beautiful drawings of rice-powder. On some
front porches they had spread the new paddy to dry in the
hot sun. Hens and roosters came and pecked at the grain
and ran hither and thither with cries of "Koko ro ko, koko
ro koro!" The little girls set to guard the grain did not seem
to bother: `How much grain can the tiny hens eat?' - they
thought in disdain as they continued with their board
games with cowrie shells.
The smells and smoke of cooking rose from chimneys on
rooftops. The fragrance of paddy being cured, millet-grain
being parched, and meat being roasted mingled with each
other. Such smells made Vallavarayan's mouth water.
Blacksmiths had their shops along the roadside. The fires
in such smithies burned bright with glowing embers. The
sound of hammers striking iron could be heard loudly. The
smithies were filled with implements essential to farming,
such as plough-share points, wheel-pins, shovels, hoes and
rakes as well as sharpened spears, lances, swords and
shields; farmers and soldiers vied with each other to buy
these instruments of their trade.
Small temples could be spied in the midst of tiny villages.
The sound of drums being beaten and pipes being played
inside the temples mingled with the pleasant music of
religious chanting and singing of devotional poems like
Thevaram.
Priests carried the guardian deities of the village, like
Mariamman, on little cots and pots balanced on their
heads; they danced the Karagam in tune to the beat of little
udukku drums held in their hands as they sought alms of
grain and produce.
39
Men, tired of their work behind the ploughs, rested beneath
shady, wide spreading mango trees. They entertained
themselves by setting sharp horned goats to fight each
other.
Pea-hens roosting on housetops called out to their mates in
a shrill voice; the pea-cocks lifted their long, beautiful tails
with difficulty and flew up to them majestically. Turtledoves
shook their heads and danced with cooing sounds.
The parrots and cuckoos -- poor creatures shut up in cages
-- sang sweetly.
Vandiya Devan rode upon his horse rather slowly,
enjoying such scenes. His eyes had plenty to occupy them.
His heart also enjoyed all the sights. But his inner mind
dwelt upon the picture of a girl, covered in mist.
Aha! Why didn't that girl open her reddened lips and utter
a few words? What would she have lost by uttering a few
sentences? Who could she be? Whoever she is, shouldn't
she have some manners? Do I seem like a fellow to be
ignored? -- That wily old astrologer never did reveal who
that girl was! He is clever; very clever. How he measures
the depth of one's heart! Such experienced words he utters!
Of course he did not predict anything sensible or specific.
About political affairs ... he escaped without disclosing
anything! He merely repeated things known to everybody
in a fascinating manner. But he did make the good
prediction about my lucky-stars being on the rise ... Let the
astrologer of Kudanthai prosper in his trade.
Vandiya Devan rode onwards with such thoughts
occupying his mind. The sights presented to him, dragged
him off and on from this dream world to reality. Finally he
reached the banks of the River Arisil. After going a few
yards he heard the sound of women laughing and the jingle
jangle of their bracelets.
The women were completely hidden by the thick groves of
trees growing on the bank. He peered into the trees, trying
to locate the women who made the noise. Suddenly he
could hear the fear filled screams "Oh dear", "Ai Oh",
"Help", "Crocodile!" said the voices of several women. He
whipped his horse in the direction of the shouts. He soon
spied several maids in a clearing between the trees close to
the water. Their faces were filled with fright. But, --
surprise of surprises -- two of them seemed to be the very
same women he had seen in the astrologer's house!
Vandiya Devan recognized all this within the fraction of a
second.
That was not all. A horrible crocodile opening its jaws
wide, could be seen at the foot of a thick tree trunk,
blending with the roots, half in the water and half on the
bank. He had recently seen one such fearful crocodile in
the floods of the Kollidam. He had heard how dangerous
the beast was. Therefore, when he saw the reptile, his heart
skipped a beat and his whole body froze with agitation for
a minute.
The crocodile was very near the girls who had been
laughing merrily a few moments earlier. It was opening its
horrible jaws wide and appeared monstrous. The crocodile
had to only move just one step closer; one of the girls
would be gone! She could not escape because of the thick
tree!
However confused his heart and mind, there was nothing
wrong with his courage. He did not even think beyond one
second about what he should do. He took careful aim and
swiftly threw the spear in his hand. The spear pierced the
crocodile's back, entered deep into its hide and stood
upright. Our hero, immediately jumped off his horse and
drawing his sword he rushed towards the reptile to finish
it off in one stroke.
He heard the girls laughing once again, like before. The
sound was repulsive to Vandiya Devan's ears. Why do
these foolish women laugh like this at this dangerous
moment? he thought.
Having rushed forward, he stopped in shock and surprise
for a minute. He saw the faces of those women. He could
see no fear or fright in them. He could just detect the signs
of laughter and mischief. He could not believe that they
were the same girls who cried out for help a few minutes
ago.
One among them -- the maid he had seen in the astrologer's
house -- spoke in a pleasant, elegant voice: "Girls, stop it!
Why are you all laughing?" He heard her scolding as if in a
dream.
He moved closer to the crocodile and then hesitated as he
raised his sword. He turned to look at the faces of those
girls once again. A suspicion, which filled his heart with
shame, humiliating his very existence -- rose in him.
By now, that girl -- the lady who had dwelt in his thoughts
for some time now -- parted from her friends and came
forward. She stood before him, in front of the crocodile, as
if guarding it!
"Sir! I am very thankful to you. Please do not trouble
yourself unnecessarily," she said.
*****
Ponniyin Selvan
Chapter 15 -- Vanathi's Tricks
We request our readers to please recall that earlier moment
in our story when Kundavai and Vanathi climbed onto the
chariot and rode towards Kudanthai, leaving their friends
on the banks of the River Arisil. We shall now listen to the
conversation of those maids who were left behind.
40
"My dear Tarika, look at this good fortune that has blown
the way of that Kodumbalur female! What is so fascinating
about her for our Younger Pirati?"
"No fascination, no nothing! For the past four months that
girl has been going around like one deranged; she is often
falling down in one of her fainting fits. The Younger Pirati
is worried because they have left that orphan girl in her
care. She is taking Vanathi to the Astrologer to find out
what ails her. Perhaps it is because of some ghost or spirit?
If it is so, don't they have to get rid of it with some magic
or spell?"
"It is no ghost and no phantom. Which spirit will come and
posses her? She is capable of driving away a hundred
ghosts." A girl known as Varini uttered these words with
some venom.
"All those fainting fits of Vanathi are one big deception
my dear. That snake thinks that she can capture the Prince
in her coils if she does such things."
"What Niravati says is true. And that is not the whole
story. Remember that day when the Prince was leaving on
his campaign she dropped the platter with the lighted
lamp? Even that, she did mainly to attract the attention of
the Prince. How can a platter carried in both hands slip like
that? Or is our Prince some sort of fearsome tiger or bear
for her to be frightened?" continued Varini.
"And she pretended to fall into a faint immediately; How
clever."
"More than all her tricks, the funny thing is that Kundavai
Pirati and the Prince believed her!" added Sendiru.
Mandakini offered the comment, "These are times for
those who deceive and tell lies and falsehoods."
"The Prince who had already mounted his horse, leaving
for the campaign; he came back into the palace to look at
her! What else does one need? See how successful her
tricks were?"
"What you say about the Prince is of course true. There is
none in the fourteen known worlds to compare with him.
There is none like him even in the imaginary tales and
epics. But what I say is something else. This Vanathi, --
who fainted -- do you know what that fainting is really
about? There is no need of going to an astrologer to find
the cause! If anyone had asked me I would have
explained." Varini was sure of herself.
"What is that fainting? You can tell us, can't you?" asked
Sendiru. Varini then whispered something in her friend's
ears. Niravati intervened, "Hey! What's the secret? Let us
know it too!"
"I believe it is not an ordinary fainting fit! It is a lovelorn
fit!" Upon hearing these words all the girls laughed
merrily. Hearing this noise, the birds upon the trees flew
out with noisy wing-beats.
"When our Prince comes back from Lanka she will again
try her magic tricks on him. We should not give place for
that."
"If this Vanathi does not go mad by the time the Prince
returns, I shall change my name from Tarika to Tataka (an
ogress of the epic Ramayana)."
"OK! Let it go! Don't we have to complete the task
assigned to us before the Younger Pirati comes back?
Come girls, enough of this," said Mandakini.
After that, two of them removed one of the loose planks at
the bottom of the barge. In a long alcove under it, they
found a crocodile! That is, a dead crocodile preserved and
stuffed with fibre and cotton! They took it out. The girls
then paddled the barge a little way along the bank and
pulled in near a clearing; a large mango tree grew along
the bank with thick spreading roots. They pulled the
stuffed crocodile amidst the tree roots. It lay among the
roots, half in the water and half out. The girls bound a thin
string to one of its legs and tied it to the root, preventing
the stuffed reptile from floating away!
Tarika asked, "Why did the Younger Pirati want us to
leave the crocodile here, like this?"
"Don't you know? Vanathi is so timid and poor-spirited,
frightened of each and everything. To get rid of her fear
and make her brave."
"If we consider all these things, it seems as if the Younger
Pirati really intends to wed this foolish Vanathi to our
Prince!" exclaimed Niravati.
"If anything like that happens, I shall poison this Vanathi
and kill her," said the jealous maid, Varini.
"All this jealousy of yours is not warranted. All the kings
of the world, the monarch of Manyaketa in Rashtrakuta,
the Emperor of Vengi, the King of Kalinga and even the
Emperor of Kanouj are ready to give their daughters in
marriage to our Prince. Who will care about this Vanathi
from Kodumbalur?" said soft spoken Mandakini.
"All those kings may be ready, like you say; but what are
the wishes of our Prince? I believe he always says `If I
ever marry, I shall marry a girl from the Tamil lands.'
Don't you all know this? asked Sendiru.
"Then, all is well. All of us should polish our charms and
show our competence. What this Vanathi can do, we can
also achieve!"
Let us now explain the reason for such talk amongst these
women.
*****
41
Ponniyin Selvan
Chapter 16 -- Arulmozli Varma
About a thousand and more years ago, the best of kings,
Paranthaka Sundara Chozla (AD 957-973), ruled as an
Emperor without equal in South India. He had ascended
the Chozla throne several years before the times of our
story. For the past several hundred years Chozla power had
been growing. Chozla Territories were spreading in all
directions. Even so, when Sundara Chozla ascended the
throne, his enemies in the south and north were powerful.
Gandara Aditya who had ruled before him, was immersed
in devotion to God Shiva; he had merited the title
Gandara-aditya who had knowledge of (knew) Shiva. He
did not show much interest in expanding his territories.
After Gandara Aditya, his brother Arinjaya, who ascended
the throne, ruled for a short year. After Arinjaya's death at
Atrur, his son Paranthaka Sundara Chozla came to power.
Sundara Chozla had all the qualities essential for a great
king. Being skilled in war, he led a campaign to the
southern region in the very beginning of his reign. A great
battle took place between the Chozla and Pandiya armies
at a place called Chevoor. Mahinda, the King of Lanka,
had sent a large battalion to help his friend Veera-pandiya,
who ruled at that time from Madurai City. The large
Chozla armies defeated the combined forces of the
Pandiyas and the Lankans at Chevoor. Veera-pandiya who
lost his armies, lost his crown, lost his friends, saved his
life and ran from the battlefield to escape into hiding. He
hid himself in the rocky caves of a desert and bided his
time.
Most of the Lankan army was destroyed in the Chevoor
battle. Some soldiers who survived, abandoned their fame
and bravery and escaped to Lanka with their lives.
It had been the practice of the Lankan kings to send their
men in support of the Pandiya kings, in the clashes
between the Chozlas and Pandiyas. Sundara Chozla
wished to put an end to this practice. He decided to send a
Chozla contingent to land in Lanka and teach the island
king a lesson. He sent a large army to Lanka under the
command of a chieftain of Kodumbalur, known as
Paranthaka the Younger Lord of Velir. Unfortunately the
Chozla army did not land in Lanka all at one time. They
did not have adequate shipping facilities for that.
The battalions which had landed first started advancing
without any forethought. Mahinda's Lankan army led by
Commander Sena came out and surrounded the Chozla
forces in a surprise move. A terrible battle was fought. In
that engagement, the Chozla Commander lost his life.
Stone inscriptions (deciphered in recent years) refer to him
as the Younger Lord of Velir who fell in Lanka.
When Veera-pandiya who was hiding in the desert caves,
heard this news, he gathered courage once again and
emerged. Again he assembled a large army and entered the
battlefield. This time, the Pandiya legion was completely
destroyed. Veera-pandiya also lost his life. Aditya
Karikala, the elder son of Sundara Chozla, took part in this
final battle and performed various heroic deeds. He also
acquired the title `The Valiant Prince who wrung the head
of Veera-pandiya.'
In spite of all this, the Chozla Emperor and all his generals,
advisors, ministers and soldiers, did not forget their wish to
teach the Singhala King Mahinda of Lanka a lesson. A
large force was gathered in readiness for the campaign.
The question "Who should lead this legion?" arose. The
Crown Prince Aditya Karikala - Sundara Chozla's elder
son -- was at that time busy with his troops in the northern
border. He had captured the ancient city of Kanchi, after
routing the armies of the Rashtrakutas who had occupied
the Thiru-munai-padi and Thondai Territories. He was
making preparations to lead his armies further north.
In this situation, a fierce competition rose among the other
generals in the Chozla nation for the privilege of leading
the Lankan campaign. Jealousy and accusations resulted
from such rivalry. It was very rare to find someone who
did not wish to enter the battlefield in that ancient Tamil
land! The competition was about who should go to the
war-front. Enmity and envy would often result from such
competition.
There was fierce rivalry amongst the Chozla generals
about who should lead the Lankan campaign and establish
the Chozla fame by destroying the pride of the Singhala
Kings. Prince Arulmozli Varma, the younger son of
Emperor Sundara Chozla, came forward to put an end to
this rivalry. "Father! I have spent enough time in the
luxury of the Pazlayarai Palace, as the darling child of my
aunts, grandmothers and mothers. Please appoint me as the
Commander of the Southern Armies. I shall go to Lanka
and lead the Lankan campaign," said the young Prince.
Arulmozli Varma was barely nineteen years old at that
time. He was Sundara Chozla's cherished younger son; he
was the beloved child of all the queens who lived at the
Pazlayarai Palace; he was the darling of the Chozla nation.
Sundara Chozla was possessed of a handsome
countenance. His father Arinjaya had fallen in love with
her beauty and married Kalyani, Princess of the enemy
kings of Vaithumba. The son born to Arinjaya and Kalyani
was named Paranthaka; however, the citizens and
countrymen of the Chozla nation who saw the handsome
face of the Prince called him Sundara Chozla (sundara
meaning beautiful.) He came to be known by this name.
All the children born to this handsome Prince were
attractive and beautiful. But the youngest child, Arulmozli,
surpassed all others in beauty. The charm of his handsome
face was not of this world; it seemed to be divine! When
42
he was a baby, the queens of the Chozla palace would
repeatedly kiss his cheeks and make them flush. More than
any other person, his elder sister Kundavai cherished him.
Though she was barely two years older to him, Kundavai
felt that the responsibility of rearing this divine child was
hers! In his turn, Arulmozli returned all the love and
adoration that his sister showered upon him. The brother
would not cross the line drawn by his elder sister. The
Younger Pirati had to merely utter one word; even if all the
three great Gods - Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva came
together and said something against that, Arulmozli would
not consider their words. The elder sister's words were
gospel to the younger brother.
The sister would often peer into her darling brother's face.
Not just when he was awake; she would gaze upon the face
of her sleeping brother for hours together. There is some
divine grace in this boy; It is my duty to bring it to the
forefront and make it shine! thought the young Princess.
When her brother slept, she would often pick up his hands
and study the lines on his palms. To her, those lines would
appear to have the sign of the Conch and Discus. Aha! He
is born to rule this world! He will bring the whole world
under one rule, she would think. But, there was no
possibility of his ascending the Chozla throne. Princes
elder to him -- eligible to ascend the throne -- there were
two others before him. Then, how could he acquire a
kingdom? On which throne could he sit? Who knows
divine intentions? The world is big; several kingdoms and
territories exist on this earth. Have we not heard of princes
and kings who ventured into alien lands and by their
prowess acquired kingdoms? Have we not read of such
happenings in novels and epics? That ancient prince who
was thrown out of his kingdoms on the banks of the
Ganga, did he not sail the seas to reach Lanka and
establish a mighty nation? Didn't his Singhala Dynasty rule
firmly in Lanka for a thousand years?
Kundavai thought of such things constantly. In the end she
came to the conclusion that her younger brother was the
appropriate commander to lead the Lankan campaign.
She said, "Thambi, my darling brother Arulmozli! It will
be difficult for me to part from you for even one second.
However, the time has come for me to send you on your
way. You must lead the Lankan campaign and leave for
the island."
Arulmozli agreed joyously. He had waited for the day -- to
escape from the life of luxury and the smothering love of
the maids and queens in the palace. His beloved sister had
now ordered him to do so. What other worry could he
have? What other impediment?
If Kundavai had made up her mind, there was nothing that
would not take place in the Chozla nation. The Emperor
loved his beloved daughter to that extant! He trusted her
implicitly!
Prince Arulmozli was appointed the Commander of the
Southern Armies. He led his men into Lanka, and
conducted the campaign for some time. But the war would
not end easily. There was a difference in his method of
campaigning and that of others. Supplies and support
requested by him did not come from his native land.
Therefore, once in the midst of all his endeavors he came
back to Tanjore. He spoke to his father and arranged
matters to his satisfaction. He prepared to depart for Lanka
once again.
Kundavai had arranged for several auspicious ceremonies
at the main palace in Pazlayarai, to bid farewell to her
darling brother. When Arulmozli stepped out, the victory
drums in the palace courtyard boomed; conches were
blown; kettle-drums beaten loudly. Cheering shouts rose
sky-high.
All the royal ladies of the Chozla clan blessed their
beloved Prince; they anointed his forehead with holy
ashes, and warding off evil eyes, sent him on his victorious
journey.
All the maids-of-honor in Kundavai's court stood on the
palace steps carrying golden patters laden with a lighted
lamp. These maids were no ordinary folk. They were from
the famous noble families of the south. They had come to
Pazlayarai, considering it a great opportunity, to serve the
Elder Pirati Sembiyan Madevi and to become companions
to Kundavai Pirati. Vanathi, a daughter of the Kodumbalur
chieftain, the Younger Lord of Velir, was one among
them.
When those girls saw the Prince coming down the palace
steps, all of them felt a certain agitation in their hearts.
When the Prince came closer, they waved their platters
with the lighted lamp before him (to ward off the evil eye).
At that moment Vanathi felt her whole body shiver.
The golden platter in her hands slipped and fell with a
"clang" to the ground. The thought, "Oh dear! What is this
ill omen!" rose in every mind. But when they saw the
wick burning bright even if the lamp had fallen, they felt it
was after all a good omen. The elders assured them, "This
is a good sign."
Prince Arulmozli smiled at the girl who had dropped the
plate for no apparent reason and continued his descent
down the steps. As soon as he moved ahead, Vanathi fell
down in a swoon. She had fainted with the mortification of
having committed such an impropriety. Upon the orders of
Kundavai, the serving maids carried her into the palace.
Kundavai hurried inside, without even waiting to see her
beloved brother mount his horse and depart; she went in, to
revive her friend.
Holding the reins of his horse, the Prince who had seen the
girl faint, sent his footman inside to find out "How is the
girl who fainted?"
43
Kundavai sent the footman back with the words "Tell the
Prince to come back here for a minute." The brother who
had never crossed the commands of his sister, came back
accordingly. The sight of his sister trying to revive the
young girl lying on her lap touched his heart.
"Akka! Who is this girl? What is her name?" he asked.
"She is the daughter of the Younger Lord Velir of
Kodumbalur. Her name is Vanathi; of a timid disposition."
"Oh! Now I understand why she fainted. Was it not her
father who led the earlier campaign to Lanka? Didn't he
die in the battlefront over there? Perhaps she remembered
that."
"Maybe. But don't worry about her. I can look after her. I
called you back to wish you well. Go to Lanka and come
back victorious and soon. Send me news as often as you
can!" said the Younger Pirati.
"Fine! You too send me news if anything happens here."
By now, Vanathi was regaining consciousness; perhaps
due to the pleasant sound of Prince Arulmozli's voice! Her
eyelids opened softly. Upon glimpsing the Prince, her eyes
opened wider. Her face gained some color and revived;
coral red lips smiled; cheeks dimpled.
Along with her senses a shyness also returned. She sat up
quickly. She was mortified upon seeing the Princess
behind her. She recalled everything that happened. "Oh!
What have I done Akka?" she asked with remorse.
Before Kundavai could reply, the Prince intervened, "Don't
worry about that Vanathi! Anyone can make a mistake.
You have every reason to be agitated. I was explaining it
to my sister."
Vanathi wondered if she was dreaming or if it was real.
The Prince who never looked at any woman was talking to
her. He is consoling me and cheering me up! How can I
bear this fortune? - Look, how my whole body shivers, I
am dizzy again....
"Akka, my men are waiting. Permit me to leave. When you
send me news from here, let me know how this girl feels.
Look after this orphan girl carefully." He then departed.
The other maids and companions were watching all these
happenings from the windows and balconies. The flame of
jealousy began to glow in their hearts.
From that day onwards Kundavai showered a special
affection upon Vanathi. She kept her by her side
constantly. She had her personal tutors teach her all the
arts and learning she had. She took Vanathi along
wherever she went. She led her into the garden and talked
secrets. She shared all her dreams about her younger
brother with her new friend. Vanathi listened to everything
carefully.
After the above incidents took place, Vanathi fell into
fainting fits four or five times. Kundavai would revive her
and soothe her. When Vanathi would sit up, with her chest
heaving with sobs, Kundavai would console her with
words such as "My dear foolish girl! Why are you crying
like this?"
"I don't know Akka! Please forgive me," Vanathi would
reply. Kundavai would embrace her and comfort her.
All these activities further enraged the other maidens in the
palace.
Therefore, was it not natural for those girls to talk in that
fashion, when the two friends had gone away in the chariot
towards Kudanthai?
*****
Ponniyin Selvan
Chapter 17 -- A Horse Galloped
Kundavai had decided that Vanathi was the appropriate
bride for her incomparable brother. But Vanathi had one
fault: she was too timid. How could a girl who was to
marry the bravest of brave warriors, who was to give birth
to a son to rule the whole world, be so fainthearted?
Kundavai wanted to change her timidity and make her
brave and courageous. She had arranged for the deception
with the stuffed crocodile for this very purpose. But, the
Lady of Kodumbalur passed that test easily.
Upon returning from the house of the Kudanthai
Astrologer, Kundavai and Vanathi climbed into their swan
shaped barge. The barge floated downstream for a short
distance. The girls would often play in the water amidst the
thick groves of trees. They reached their favorite spot and
disembarked. When everyone had climbed down, one of
the girls screamed "Crocodile!" "Help!" She was pointing
beyond the tree near which they were standing. All the
other girls soon took up the cry and ran hither and thither.
But Vanathi, who was usually of a frightened disposition,
did not exhibit any fear. She was not scared even upon
seeing the horrible crocodile, with its wide open jaws, right
next to her. Vanathi was not afraid even when she saw the
faces of the other girls who were pretending to be afraid
according to Kundavai's instructions.
"Akka, the crocodile is powerful only when it is in the
water; it has no strength when it is on land. Tell these girls
not to be afraid!" said Vanathi.
44
"You deceiving thief! This is not a live crocodile; it is a
stuffed carcass! Someone has already told you that!" said
one of the other girls.
"I am not afraid even if it is really alive. I am only afraid
of lizards."
It was at this point, that Vandiya Devan arrived there to
save those maids from the terrifying crocodile! He jumped
off his horse and in one run threw his spear as he came
rushing forward. When Vallavarayan heard the words of
the lady who stood in front of the crocodile, his whole
body became alert. His disappointment that she had not
talked to him earlier at the astrologer's house was now
demolished.
But, that crocodile behind her - with its gaping jaws --
somehow created an uneasiness in him. Why is she
standing in front of the crocodile? Why is she asking me
not to bother? And why is that horrible crocodile not
moving from its spot all this time?
The lady continued: "Sir! In Kudanthai, you begged
pardon for having entered the astrologer's house in a hurry.
We came away without giving you any reply. You might
have perhaps construed that all women of the Chozla
country are mannerless creatures. Please do not think so. I
was a little confused because my friend had suddenly
fainted in that house. That is why I did not reply ... ..."
Oh, ho! What a pleasing voice this is? Why is my heart
pounding like this on hearing her speak? Why is my throat
parched? Not even did the marching drums of the war, or
even the sweet music of the flute and lute fill me with such
joy. Nothing shook me up like this. Why am I not able to
interrupt her and say something? Why is my tongue tied?
Why has the gentle breeze stopped? Why has the Arisil
stopped flowing? And then .... this crocodile? Why is it
still, like this?
While Vandiya Devan's heart was agitated in this manner,
his ears could continue hearing that girl's voice as if in a
dream: "... even now, you did this Sir, thinking that you
were saving us. You threw the spear at the crocodile. It is
rare to find gallants who can handle the spear with such
speed and accuracy..."
All the other girls standing under that tree now laughed
sharply. The laughter shattered Vandiya Devan's infatuated
dream. The magic cords, -- that girl's speech -- which
bound him, were cut loose. He examined the crocodile
again; moved aside from the girl in front of him and neared
the reptile. He shook the spear embedded on its back and
pulled it loose. No blood gushed from the hole made by his
weapon: then? some plantain fiber and cotton came out.
Those wicked girls laughed again. This time they clapped
their hands and applauded.
Vallavarayan's heart and body shrank with mortification.
He had never met such disgrace ever before. Such a great
blow to his pride in front of all these women! Are these
women? No, no! they are ogresses! I should not tarry next
to them. I should not look upon their faces. Damn this! My
darling spear! Is this your fate, to suffer such dishonor?
How will I wipe out this blemish? ...
All these thoughts raced through Vandiya Devan's mind
within one moment. If those who stood there laughingly
had been men, the clearing would have turned into a
battlefield! Those who dared to laugh would have lost their
lives that very instant! River Arisil would have run red
with their blood. But they were women! What could he do
to them? The only recourse was to run away and escape!
Without even looking back at the face of the girl who had
captivated his mind, Vandiya Devan ran up the river
embankment. His horse, which was standing up there,
neighed. Vandiya Devan felt that even his horse was
laughing at him along with those girls. All his anger turned
towards the horse. He jumped upon its back and smacked
it sharply, twice with his whip. The self-respecting horse
quickly galloped along the trail on the riverside.
For a while, Kundavai Pirati gazed in the direction in
which the horse had galloped away. She watched till the
dust raised by the horse had settled.
Turning towards her companions, she said, "Girls! None of
you have any refinement even now! You shouldn't have
laughed like that. When we are alone we can laugh and
tease as we wish. Don't we have to show some decorum
when a stranger is in our midst? What would that youth
think about the women of the Chozla country?" spoke
Kundavai.
*****
Ponniyin Selvan
Chapter 18 -- Idumban Kari
We left Azlvar-adiyan, also known as Thirumalai, at the
ferry landing near Kollidam. Let us consider that
Vaishnava zealot once again.
When Vandiya Devan sat upon his horse and rode away
towards Kudanthai, Mr. Thirumalai started mumbling
these words to himself: "This youth is very sharp. If I
enter through the sieve he squeezes in through the floor
decoration. I have not been able to find the truth about
whose man he is, or why and where he is going. I don't
know if he was part of the treasonable meeting at
Kadamboor Fort. Luckily, I mentioned the Astrologer of
Kudanthai to him! Let us see if that old man can find out
what I could not ..."
45
"Hello Sir! Are you talking to that ficus tree -- or, are you
talking to yourself?" Hearing a voice behind him, Mr.
Thirumalai turned around. The servant who had come from
Kadamboor and procured the horse for Vandiya Devan,
was standing there.
"My good man! Are you asking me? I wasn't talking to
myself; neither was I talking to the tree. I had a little
discussion with a vampire sitting upon this tree," said Mr.
Thirumalai.
"Oh! Is that so, Sir! Is the vampire of the Saiva sect or of
the Vaishnava sect?" asked that good man.
"That's what I was trying to find out. You interrupted and
now the vampire has disappeared. ... Let him go! ... What
is your name, my good man?"
"Why do you ask, Sir?"
"You saved us in the middle of the Kollidam by preventing
the ferry-boat from overturning. Shouldn't I remember a
commendable fellow like you?
"My name ... My name ... is Idumban Kari, Sir." He said it
with some hesitation.
"Oh! Idumban Kari? I have heard it somewhere ...
before..."
At that time Idumban Kari did something very peculiar!
He placed the spreading palms of both his hands one upon
the other, and wriggled his thumbs. As he did this, he
looked at Azlvar-adiyan's face.
"My dear man! What is this sign? I don't understand ...?"
Idumban Kari's dark face darkened further. His eyebrows
drew close in exasperation. "I? I didn't make any sign," he
said.
"You did. You did do so. I saw it. Exponents of the
classical dance Bharata Natyam, hold a certain posture
when they represent the first incarnation of God Vishnu;
you did something like that."
"The first incarnation of Vishnu? What is that, Sir? I don't
know?"
"Don't you know of Thirumal's first incarnation? The
Pisces!"
"Are you talking about fish?"
"Yes. My dear man! yes!"
"Very good Sir! Your eyes are something special! On an
ordinary tree you can see a vampire and empty hands look
like the fish incarnation. Perhaps, Sir, you have an extra
fondness for fish!"
"No. No. No such thing my dear man! Don't sidetrack me.
If you wish, let us drop the matter. But tell me this: do you
remember that radical Saiva fellow who came with us in
the boat? Do you know where he went?"
"Do I know? Oh yes. I saw him; he came along the same
road when I went to buy the horse. He kept cursing you all
along the way ..."
"What did he say?"
"He said that if he sees you again he would cut off your
topknot and shave your head and ..."
"Ah! Does he know the barber's trade?"
"He said that he would wipe out all the namam marks of
your sect from your body and cover you with ashes!"
"Is that so? Then, I must surely meet him. Do you know
the name of his home-town?"
"He said that it was Pullirukum Vellur, Sir."
"Everything else must wait till I meet that zealot! My good
man, where are you going now? Will you be coming in
that direction?"
"No. No. Why should I go there? I have to cross the
Kollidam and go back to Kadamboor. Won't the master
pluck my eyes out, if I don't show up?"
"If that is so, go quickly my man! See, the ferry-boat is
about to leave."
Idumban Kari looked back; what Azlvar-adiyan said was
true. The ferry-boat was about to leave.
"That's fine Sir. I shall leave immediately." After uttering
these words he started walking quickly down the
embankment, towards the ferry landing. He looked back
once, when he was half way down. By then Azlvar-adiyan
had done a strange thing: he quickly climbed the ficus tree
on the shore and reached the topmost branches of that huge
tree. Idumban Kari could not see him.
Idumban reached the ferry landing and stopped. "Are you
coming back to the other shore?" asked a boatman.
"No. I shall come in the next ferry. You can go," said
Idumban Kari.
"Ah! Is that all? The way you came running down, I
thought you wanted to catch this boat!" The boatman
pushed his long pole into the water; the ferry slid into the
deeps currents.
By now Azlvar-adiyan had climbed into the thickest
branches of the tree and completely concealed himself.
46
Aha! I thought correctly! This fellow did not go in that
boat. He is going to come back. I must see where he goes
and what he does next. I clearly saw his hands make the
sign of the fish. What does it mean? Fish! Fish! Fish ...!
What is represented by the sign of the fish? Ah! isn't the
fish a symbol on the Pandiya flag? Perhaps, ha! ... Could it
be so? Let us wait ... Let me wait with some patience. The
patient ones shall inherit the fields; the hasty will get the
forest! But these days it seems better to inherit the forest
than the field. Anyway let me be patient... Azlvar-adiyan
shared these thoughts with the invisible vampire in the
tree.
Soon, his expectations came true. The ferry-boat left
without Idumban Kari. Idumban looked up at the ficus tree
from where he stood. His eyes searched in all directions.
After making sure that Azlvar-adiyan was nowhere in sight
he came back to the same spot under the tree. His eyes
searched around once again before he sat down. His eyes
kept looking hither and thither as if searching for someone
or something. But, he did not look up into the branches of
the tree. Even if he had looked up he would not have
spotted Azlvar-adiyan easily for Thirumalai had hidden
himself well.
About an hour passed in this fashion. Azlvar-adiyan's legs
began turning numb. He could not remain hidden amidst
the tree branches much longer. Idumban Kari did not
appear as if he was about to leave soon. How to escape?
However carefully he descended on the other side of the
tree, he was sure to make some noise. Idumban Kari would
surely see him. He had a sharp knife thrust in his
waistband. What guarantee that he would not use it?
What can I do? Shall I make horrible noises like a ghost or
demon and jump down on him? If I jump like that he may
think that the vampire is attacking him and fall down in a
faint or run away. I can then run away and escape! ...
When Thirumalai Nambi Azlvar-adiyan was considering
these options, it seemed as if his patience would be
rewarded.
A man could be seen walking up from the south west i.e.,
the Kudanthai road. Thirumalai's intuition warned that
Idumban Kari was waiting for that man. Soon, his intuition
proved to be right.
Upon seeing the new man, Idumban Kari stood up. The
newcomer made a sign like the one Idumban had made
before. That is, he placed the palm of one hand upon the
other and wriggled his thumbs, making the sign of the fish.
On seeing it, Idumban made a similar sign with his hands.
"What is your name?" asked the newcomer.
"My name is Idumban Kari. What is yours, Sir?"
"Soman Samban."
"I was expecting you, Sir!"
"I too came in search of you."
"Where should we go?"
"Westward!"
"Where?"
"To the enemy memorial."
"Near Thiru-puram-biyam ... "
"Don't talk so loudly. If someone hears it?"
"There is no one here. I looked."
"If someone is hiding near-abouts?"
"Impossible."
"OK. Let us leave. I don't know the way very well. You go
first. I shall follow you at a little distance. Stop and make
sure that I am following you as you go on."
"Fine. It is not a good road. The path is full of stones and
thorns. We have to walk through forest and thicket. Watch
and walk carefully."
"That's alright. You leave now. Even if it is a forest path,
hide if you see anyone. Understand?"
"Yes. I know."
Idumban Kari started walking westward along the banks of
the Kollidam. Soman Samban followed him a little later.
Azlvar-adiyan waited on the tree till both were hidden
from his sight. He had watched and heard everything!
"Ah ha! These are bad times! All sorts of unexpected
things are happening. I think I am going to find out about
some mysterious activity. God's grace has given me the
opportunity to find out. Now, getting details depends on
my resource-fulness. I could not get all the details at
Kadamboor. I should not be thwarted like that again.
Thiru-puram-biyam Memorial means they are talking
about the memorial temple for the Ganga King Prithvipathi.
It is more than a hundred years since that memorial
was built. It is now dilapidated! The forest has encroached
and surrounded that area. The village is quite away from
the memorial.
"Why are these men going there? If the matter is to be
discussed between these two, they would have talked about
it here itself. There is no need to walk a league along a
forest path. I am sure some others are likely to come to that
spot. Why? Why did one of them refer to the memorial of
King Prithvi-pathi as `The enemy memorial'? Whose
enemy was Ganga Prithvi-pathi? Yes! My surmise is likely
to be true. Anyway let me find out. They have walked
along the banks of the Kollidam. I shall walk along the
47
River Manni. It doesn't matter if the forest is thicker along
the banks of the Manni. Why should I bother about the
forest and hills or the stones and thorns. I am used to them
-- They have to be afraid of me!"
Muttering these words and thinking such thoughts, Azlvaradiyan
descended the ficus tree and went a little
southward. He came to the banks of the River Manni and
started walking west. He walked through forests meeting
no one on the way and by about sunset he reached the
memorial temple near Thiru-puram-biyam.
*****
Ponniyin Selvan
Chapter 19 -- Battlefield And Forest
It was a practice among the Tamils of the ancient times to
erect a hero stone and raise a memorial for great warriors
who died bravely in the battlefield. If the memorial was
marked merely by a stone tablet the place was known as
the stone monument of the warrior. If a statue of a divinity
was consecrated along with the marker, the place came to
be called a palli padai or memorial shrine and temple.
One such memorial-temple existed near the village of
Thiru-puram-biyam, on the northern banks of the River
Manni about half a league from Kudanthai. It had been
erected in memory of a great warrior, the Ganga King
Prithvi-pathi who had died in a great battle near that
village.
Those who read world history may recall that the great
battles of Waterloo and Panipat changed the very course of
history. The battle of Thiru-puram-biyam had a similar
significance with regard to South Indian history. That
battle took place in the year AD 885, about a hundred
years before the times of our story. It is essential that all
persons interested in the history of the Tamils should know
the details of that battle.
The early Chozla kings of the Sangam Age -- Karikala
Valava, Ilan-chet-chenni, Perunar-killi, Thodi-thot
Sembiyan -- ruled with great fame and prosperity. For
about five to six hundred years after their times, a long
eclipse clouded the fame of the Chozla's. The Pandiyas in
the south and the Pallavas of the north squashed the
Chozlas into becoming petty chieftains. Towards the end,
the Chozlas had to give up their coveted capital city,
Uraiyoor, to the Pandiyas and move east. The Chozla
chieftains who moved east made Pazlayarai, near
Kudanthai, their new capital. But they did not forget their
rights to their long time capital, i.e., Uraiyoor. Neither did
they give up their title of Rooster Kings -- a title of
monarchs who ruled from Uraiyoor which was also known
as Kozliyoor (kozli in Tamil means rooster.)
Of the Chozlas of Pazlayarai, Vijayala became famous as
an incomparable, brave warrior. He had fought in the
forefront of various battles and had ninety-six war-wounds
on his body. Latter day poets sang his praises enumerating
his wounds to be `Ninety and twice of three more' and said
that he `Wore on his brave body ornaments of battlewounds
numbering ninety and six.' His son, Aditya Chozla
was comparable to his father in bravery. He also took part
in several great campaigns. Vijayala Chozla had retired in
his old age after crowning his son as the king.
At that time the enmity between the Pandiyas and Pallavas
had grown to result in several skirmishes and fights. The
Pandiya king of that time was Varaguna. The Pallava
monarch was Aparajita. The battles between these two
powerful rulers often took place on Chozla territory! Just
like the rooster caught in the midst of a clash between one
elephant and another, the Chozla people suffered: caught
in the midst of the enmity of two super-powers.
King Vijayala tried to make the best use of these wars for
gaining his own supremacy. In each skirmish or battle he
would join forces with one opponent or the other. Victory
and defeat were equal: but the warrior spirit of Chozla men
became well established.
Several tributaries branch from the Cauvery to form a delta
-- the fertile lands of the Chozla country. All these
tributaries branch and flow to the south of the Cauvery.
There is only one tributary between the Kollidam and
Cauvery rivers. It is known as the River Manni.
The final test of strength between the super-powers took
place as a great battle near the village of Thiru-purambiyam
situated to the north of the Manni. The armed
strength of both sides was more or less equal. Pallava
Aparajita was supported by the Ganga King Prithvi-pathi.
Aditya Chozla also supported Aparajita.
Compared to the armies of the Pandiyas, Pallavas and
Gangas the Chozla battalion was tiny. But Aditya knew
that if the Pandiyas were victorious this time, the Chozlas
would be totally destroyed. Therefore, like the Cauvery
mixing into the mighty ocean, his tiny army joined the
larger Pallava forces.
The battlefield spread across one square league. The four
divisions of the army -- chariot legions, elephant brigade,
cavalry and infantry were ready. When elephant clashed
with elephant, like two mountains hurled against each
other, the skies thundered. Horses flew against horses like
furious storms thrown one against the other; lances and
long spears held by the horsemen shone like lightning.
Chariot dashed against chariot: broken into smithereens
and thrown in all directions. The noise of the whistling
arrows and clashing swords filled the skies and shook the
four corners of the world. After a fierce conflict lasting
over three days, the field looked like a sea of blood. Dead
horses and elephants appeared like islands in that sea.
Lifeless bodies formed dunes. Broken chariots floated like
driftwood from a sunken ship. Both sides had lost
thousands, tens of thousands of men.
48
After the first three days of battle, a very tiny battalion of
the Pallavas remained intact. Those men who lived were
very tired. But Pandiya forces attacked again and again as
if they owned some divine spell against tiredness. A
council-of-war was held in King Aparajita's tent. The three
kings -- Aparajita, Prithvi-pathi and Aditya together with
their generals, met to discuss further action. They decided
that they could no longer oppose the enemy; it was best to
retreat to the north of the Kollidam.
At that point a miracle happened in the battlefield.
Vijayala Chozla -- weak with old age, bearing numberless
war-scars over his body, having lost the power to use his
legs because of wounds -- somehow came to the battle
front. The old war-lion realized that if the Pallava forces
withdrew beyond the Kollidam, the Chozla entity would be
completely wiped out. His roar instilled new life in the
remaining Pallava men.
"One elephant; give me just one elephant," shouted the old
monarch.
"All our elephant brigade is lost. Not one elephant remains
alive," they said.
"One horse. At least bring me one good horse," he asked.
"Not a single horse survived," replied the men.
"At least, have two brave warriors of the Chozla nation
survived? If you are alive come forward!" roared the brave
soldier.
Instead of two, two-hundred came forward.
"Two men -- with courage in their heart and strength in
their shoulders -- two among you lift me up. The others
follow two after two to take their place. If the two carrying
me fall, those behind come forward." The bravest of brave
men spoke with a firmness.
Two giants came forward and lifted Vijayala onto their
shoulders. "GO! Go to the war-front!" he roared.
A battle was still being fought in one corner of the field.
The southern forces were fighting bravely, making the
northerners retreat. Vijayala Chozla seated on the
shoulders of two brave men entered that fight. He rushed
into the midst of the enemy legion, swirling two large
swords held in each hand; none could oppose him or stop
him. Wherever he went dead bodies of enemy men rose in
piles on both sides. Men who retreated earlier came back
to see this miracle. They stood in shock to see the inhuman
bravery of Vijayala Chozla. They cheered each other and
came back to fight.
And that was it. The fickle Goddess of Victory changed
her mind; her favor was now bestowed upon the Pallava
army. The three kings gave up the idea of retreating
beyond the Kollidam. They too entered the battle field.
Soon the Pandiya army began its retreat. They did not stop
till they reached the borders of their Pandiya Territories.
Ganga Prithvi-pathi performed various deeds of valor that
day. He established his brave fame and gave up his life in
the field.They erected a hero stone in his memory in the
battlefield. Later it was built into a memorial-temple or
palli padai.
That gory battlefield lay waste for a few years; not a weed
grew on that land. People avoided going near the place.
After a while, forest began claiming the land for itself.
Trees and creepers began growing thickly around the
memorial temple. Wolves took up abode among the
bushes. Owls and bats lived in the dark branches of tall
trees. In the course of time, no one went near that temple.
Over the years the building began to crumble. Soon it
turned into ruins. By the times of our story, the place had
become a totally deserted ruin in the middle of a forest.
Azlvar-adiyan reached the ruined memorial when darkness
was setting in. The gargoyles carved on the upper walls of
the memorial stared at him and tried to frighten him. But
that brave Vaishnava was not one to be frightened easily.
He jumped up and climbed on to the roof of the structure.
He then hid himself carefully amidst the branches of a tree
that covered the roof. He kept watch in all directions.
Soon, his eyes were able to peer into the darkness and
discern various shapes. His ears were able to hear even the
tiniest of noises.
One hour, two hours and even three hours passed after
sunset. The darkness around him was suffocating. Now
and then he heard the rasping sound of forest trees:
branches rubbed against each other. There! a wild-dog was
climbing a tree. An owl hooted; bats screeched. Birds
frightened by the wild-dog beat their wings loudly as they
tried to perch on higher branches. Wolves had begun to
howl.
He heard a noise above his head: looked up. Some small
animal -- lizard or squirrel jumped to a different branch. A
small patch of the clear sky could be seen through the
branches of the tree. Stars twinkled and peeped down. In
that silent, dark forest the stars seemed to extend a friendly
smile towards him. Therefore, Thirumalai Nambi Azlvaradiyan
looked up at the stars and started talking softly:
"Oh! My dear star friends! Today you seem to be laughing
at the foolishness of these human beings on this earth. You
have good reason to laugh! You might remember that
horrible battle which took place in this very spot a hundred
years ago; and how the whole area was a wretched ruin of
blood and death. Perhaps you were surprised at mankind
and their petty enmities! You wondered why they
butchered each other to create rivers of red. It is called
bravery! Even a hundred years after a man's death they
consider him an `Enemy' -- they referred to it as the
`Enemy memorial'. They are going to meet near the enemy
49
memorial and talk and conspire of more harm to the living
in the name of the dead! Oh you twinkling lights of the
skies! Why won't you laugh? Yes. Laugh as much as you
wish. Dear God! Is my coming here a big waste? Is the
whole night going to pass like this? Are those men, whom
I expected, coming here, or not? Did I hear wrong? Did I
not see correct? Or did those men who made the sign of
the fish change their plans and go some place else? -- What
disappointment? Disappointment? I cannot forgive myself
if I am cheated today... Ah! ... I think I can see some light
in that direction. What is it? The light is now hidden. No. I
can see it. No doubt now. Someone is coming here; he is
holding a torch of burning twigs. No, not one man -- I hear
two men. My waiting has not been wasted."
The two men who came crossed the path and went beyond
the memorial temple. They stopped in the midst of a small
clearing nearby. One fellow sat down. The man holding
the lighted twigs looked around. There was no doubt: he
was expecting some others. After sometime, two others
came and joined them. They must have been very brave
men; men who had come to that spot several times before.
Otherwise, they could not have found their way in that
darkness in that forest. Those who came first and the late
comers talked amongst themselves. But, Azlvar-adiyan
could not hear a single word! Oh dear! All my effort seems
useless. I cannot even see those men clearly. What shall I
do?
Two more men joined them very soon. They talked of
something to each other. One of the men who came last,
had a bag in one hand. He opened the string tied around his
bag and poured its contents on the ground! Gold coins
shone brightly in the light of the burning twigs. The man
who dropped the coins laughed like one possessed:
"My friends! We are about to destroy the Chozla Kingdom
using Chozla gold! Isn't it funny?" He laughed loudly
again.
"Ravidasa, don't make such a racket! Let us talk softly,"
said another.
"Fine! What does it matter how we talk in this place? If
anybody hears us, it will be owls and bats; wolves and
wild-dogs; luckily they cannot repeat what they hear!"
Ravidasa laughed even more loudly.
"Maybe. But, it is better to talk softly."
They started talking amongst themselves, softly. Azlvaradiyan
felt that it was a waste to sit on top of that roof
without hearing anything. He must get down and go near
the clearing to listen to their talk. He must manage to avoid
the danger from such activity. Azlvar-adiyan started down
from the roof top. His stocky body disturbed the tree
branches and made a slight noise.
One of the men in the clearing jumped up quickly, saying,
"Who is that?" Azlvar-adiyan's heart stopped beating for a
few seconds. There was no way of not being discovered,
except to run. Running would cause more noise. They will
surely catch him. A vampire bat on the tree spread open its
huge wings; it then opened and closed its wings lazily
several times and whistled "Oorm, oorm," loudly, twice.
*****
Ponniyin Selvan
Chapter 20 -- The First Enemy
Azlvar-adiyan gave his heartfelt thanks to the vampire bat
which helped him at the right time; a hooting owl gave
further aid. The conspirators gathered in the clearing
thought that the noise was made by the owl or the bat.
"Hey fellow! This bat has frightened us. Kill it!" said one
man.
"No need. Sharpen your knives and save them for other
important tasks; keep them to rout the very roots of our
enemy clans! Bats and owls are not our enemy; they are
our friends. We are awake when normal folk sleep. These
owls and bats are awake with us." The man called
Ravidasa spoke these words.
Thirumalai moved forward step by step, quietly, while he
listened to these words of Ravidasa. Soon he neared a large
marudai tree. The roots of that hundred year old tree
spread in all directions. Hollow spaces could be found in
between and below the thick roots. Thirumalai stood in
one such hollow blending his body with the tree trunk.
"We have no dearth of funds as long as the royal treasury
in Tanjore exists. All we need is determination to complete
the task we have undertaken. We should be capable of
guarding our secret from becoming known to anyone, until
the assignment is done. We have to divide ourselves into
two groups. One group must travel to Lanka immediately.
The other must go to the Thondai regions and wait for an
opportunity to achieve our goal. Both jobs must be
completed more or less at the same time. If there is any
delay after finishing with one enemy, the other fellow will
become forewarned. We should never let that happen. Do
you all understand? Who among you are ready to go to
Lanka?" asked Ravidasa.
"I can go." "I shall go." Several voices rose at the same
time.
"When we meet the next time, in the Pandiya Kingdom, let
us decide about who is to go to Lanka. Till then, we have
several arrangements to make here itself."
"Which is the best way to go to Lanka?" asked one man.
"We can go by Kodi Karai. That is a good place to cross
the sea. But it is difficult to reach Kodi Karai from here.
50
Enemies all along the way; spies everywhere. Therefore it
is better to go to Sethu and cross the sea to Matottam.
Those going to Lanka must know how to swim in the sea
and they must be ready to row a boat or catamaran if the
need arises. Who among you knows how to swim?"
"I do." "I can." said a few voices.
"We must first meet Mahinda, the King of Lanka and then
complete our job. Therefore, at least one of us who goes to
Lanka must be able to speak the Singhala language. Ah!
Why hasn't our Soman Samban come yet? Did any of you
see him today?" asked Ravidasa.
"Here, I am coming." The voice came from a spot very
close to the hollow in which Thirumalai was hiding.
Azlvar-adiyan flattened his body further against the tree
trunk. Dear, dear me! How troublesome it is, that my
wretched body has grown so prosperous.
Two more newcomers came and joined the group in the
clearing. Azlvar-adiyan peeped out from his hiding place,
showing a bare minimum of his face outside the hollow.
He recognized the late comers as the two men who had
met under the tree on the southern banks of the Kollidam.
On seeing the two new men, Ravidasa exclaimed,
"Welcome! Welcome! I was afraid that you were in some
trouble and may not come to this meeting. From where and
by which way are you both coming?"
"We came along the bank of the Kollidam. On the way, a
pack of wolves surrounded us. It was quite difficult to
escape from them. That is why we are late," said Soman
Samban.
"There is reason if you are afraid of the tiger or lion! What
can we achieve with the help of men who are afraid of
wolves?" asked the man who was holding the lighted
twigs.
"Don't say that my friend! The wolf or jackal is worse than
any lion or tiger which is a solitary enemy that attacks
alone. We can fight against them and manage. But wolves
come in packs. They are more dangerous. Didn't our
incomparable king of kings loose the battle and give up his
life because the Chozla jackals came in large packs all at
one time? Would it have happened any other way?"
"We shall totally destroy the whole pack of wolves. We
shall kill their very roots." Soman Samban swore with
vehemence.
"Here are the tools to help that cause!" said Ravidasa,
pointing at the gold coins. Soman Samban picked up a few
coins and examined them.
"Yes! The tiger symbol on one side; palm tree on the other
side," he exclaimed!
"Chozla gold! Lord Pazluvoor's signet. I did what I said I
would do. What news from the rest of you? Does Idumban
Kari have any special news?" asked Ravidasa.
"Yes. He has news. Let him tell it in his own words," said
Soman Samban.
Idumban Kari began speaking: "As per your orders, I
joined the household of Kadamboor Sambuvaraya and am
working as a servant in his palace. Last night my efforts
bore fruit. Yesterday, a huge banquet was held at
Kadamboor. Several guests -- the Elder Lord Pazluvoor,
Lord of Mazluvoor, Vanangamudi Munai Raya and others
had come. The gypsy dance and velan attam, the oracle
dance, took place. The man who danced as the divine-man
foretold the future when the spirit manifested him. His
predictions were helpful to our intentions. Everybody
thought that the Elder Lord Pazluvoor had brought his
Young-Queen in the closed palanquin to the palace. Lord
Pazluvoor announced that Emperor Sundara Chozla was in
poor health and that he was not likely to live long. All the
dignitaries met and decided that Prince Aditya Karikala
was not the rightful heir to ascend the throne; they decided
that Prince Madurandaka had the right to succeed as
Crown Prince. Some among them were doubtful if that
Prince would agree to accept the throne. Lord Pazluvoor
then promised that `He will accept personally,' and opened
the curtains of the closed palanquin. Prince Madurandaka
came out from the palanquin and agreed to accept the
throne..."
"They are going to crown that brave fellow who roams
around disguised as a woman! Very good! Let them crown
him! Everything is happening according to our plans. An
internal confusion in Chozla politics is very useful to our
cause. Now, whatever happens, no one will suspect us!
Idumban Kari! You have brought very good and important
news. But, how did you learn of all this? How did you get
the opportunity?" asked their leader, Ravidasa.
"I tried to put myself forward working in the inner
chambers of the palace. I was assigned the task of guarding
the courtyard where the dignitaries met, to hold their
discussions at midnight. While on guard duty, I made good
use of my eyes and ears."
"Did you learn of anything else by making such good use
of your senses?"
"Yes. I found something else. Another fellow, a stranger,
was spying on that midnight meeting and listening to
everything that was being said; he was hiding on the outer
ramparts of the palace and watching everything."
"Oh! Who was he?"
"A fanatic Vaishnava fellow with a topknot on his
forehead ...."
51
"Ah! Was it him? That's what I surmised. What did you do
with him? Did you report him to your masters and get
hold of him?"
"No. I did not do that. I had thought that he may be one of
us. I thought that you may have sent him."
"You made a big mistake! He is not one of us. He is short
and stocky; a quarrelsome fellow. His name is Thirumalai
Appan. Sometimes, he calls himself Azlvar-adiyan
Nambi."
"Yes. That very same fellow. I realized my mistake this
afternoon when I found out that he was not one of us."
"How did you find that?"
"One of the friends of my younger master Kandamaran
had also come to the fort last night. I did find out that he
had no connection with Lord Pazluvoor and his fellow
conspirators. That friend went to sleep in some corner.
This morning, my younger master came to the banks of the
Kollidam accompanying his friend. I heard him speak of
his intentions and stood in front of him often in the course
of my duties. My master asked me to come along. The
master went back to Kadamboor from the north shore; but,
he ordered me to go to the south shore and procure a horse
for his friend before I returned. I asked permission to visit
my aunt in Kudanthai after that. That is how I could come
here without any problem."
"All this is fine! But, how did you find out about that
fanatic topknot fellow?"
"When the ferry boat on the Kollidam was about to leave,
that fellow came and joined us in the boat. He exchanged
some heated words with Kandamaran's friend. Therefore, I
doubted my conclusions about him being one of us. It
appeared as if he was waiting for me on the south shore of
the Kollidam. So, I made our secret sign to him but he did
not understand. I then knew that he was not one of us."
"You have committed a grave error! You should not make
our sign to persons whose antecedents are not known. My
Friends! Please listen to this," said Ravidasa, and he
continued in a more agitated voice, "Our assignment is in
Kanchi. And in Lanka. Our greatest enemies are in these
two places. But, an enemy more important than those two,
our first enemy is Thirumalai Appan who wanders around
in the name of Azlvar-adiyan Nambi. He is capable of
thwarting our intentions and destroying all of us. He is
trying to abduct that peerless lady who is our leader."
After announcing this, Ravidasa continued, "In the future,
if any one of you see him, anywhere, in any circumstance,
use any weapon in your hands to pierce his heart and kill
him! If you carry no weapon, use your bare hands to choke
him to death. Or destroy him cunningly with poison; push
him into the flood to feed him to the crocodiles. Lure him
to a cliff top and push him to death. Kill him mercilessly,
like you would any poisonous snake, lizard or scorpion.
More commendable, if you can give him up as a human
sacrifice to the Goddess Kannagi or the Goddess Kali. He
is going to be an impediment to our intentions as long as
he is alive."
"Mr. Ravidasa! You are saying this with such conviction.
He must be a very artful fellow. Who is he?"
"He? He is a terribly capable spy!"
"Whose spy?"
"I was not sure myself, for a long time I suspected him to
be a spy of Sundara Chozla or Aditya Karikala. I realized
that he was not that. I now think that he is a spy of that evil
old she-devil who lives in Pazlayarai -- that Elder Pirati."
"Ah! Is that true? Why does that old woman, involved in
her devotions to the Gods, need a spy?"
"All her devotions are rubbish! That old Queen's devotion
to Shiva is as big a masquerade as this topknot fellow's
Vaishnava fanaticism! She is a fiend who is hostile to her
own son. That is why her very own brother, Lord
Mazlavaraya of Mazluvoor quarrelled with her; he now
belongs to that Pazluvoor fellow's group."
"Mr. Ravidasa, are there any others like that Vaishnava
extremist?"
"There is an astrologer in Kudanthai. I suspect that fellow.
He pretends to foretell the future by astrology to one and
all and discovers their secrets. None of you should ever go
to him. If you go to him, you will surely be hoodwinked."
"Whose spy is he? What do you think?"
"I have not been able to find out that! Perhaps he works for
that false prince who is in Lanka now. But I am not very
concerned about that astrologer. He cannot do much harm
to us. I am apprehensive about that Vaishnava fellow. He
should be killed upon sight: like some evil, poisonous
creature!"
Azlvar-adiyan, hidden under the hollow tree root, heard all
this; his whole body was drenched in sweat and he
shivered with fright. He doubted if he could ever escape
with his life from that forest. To top it all, he felt like
sneezing; just at that time! He tried as much as he could to
control that wicked sneeze. He stuffed his face into his
scarf and "Aatch" he sneezed.
At that time the gentle breeze had died. The whispering
trees were quiet. The quiet "Aatch" was heard very clearly
by the men gathered in the clearing. Ravidasa looked up
and said, "There is some noise near that marudai tree. Take
the light over there and see what it is."
52
The man holding the lighted twigs came towards the tree.
As he came closer and closer, the light increased. He had
to take just one more step, the light would then fall
completely on Nambi. Then, what will happen? It would
be impossible to escape with his life.
Azlvar-adiyan's heart beat faster and faster. He eyes looked
all around, up and down, searching for something to aid
his escape. Nothing was obvious. The man came closer.
Up there, on that low branch above him, ... another giant
bat was hanging upside down! Quickly, he stretched his
hands out and plucked that vampire bat off its perch. He
had a good idea!
As soon as the man with the torch took another step and
came closer, Thirumalai threw the vampire bat at him. The
torch of twigs fell to the ground. The light dimmed. The
man, his face beaten by the strong wings of that huge bat,
started screaming. The noise of several men coming closer,
running closer, could be heard. Azlvar-adiyan also began
running. He ran deeper into the forest and soon
disappeared.
Several shouts, "What?" "What happened?" could be
heard. The man who had held the torch began a protracted
explanation of how the vampire bat attacked him! These
noises were audible for quite sometime as Thirumalai ran
further away.
